We've been calling this environment
stagflation light.
>> You're going to have inflation that is
just kind of sticky, but you're not
necessarily going to see a big pop.
>> We're not expecting a reaceleration.
>> What we should be concerned about is do
we have a persistent uptick in
inflation.
>> It's also quite possible that we'll see
a slowly increasing inflation rate. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, it's CPI day. Setting the
tone for financial markets worldwide.
Inflation data just hours away as the US
China trade truth receives a widely
expected 90-day extension. Investors are
still laser focused on the potential for
further tariff pass through.
>> This is what the story is all about
today. These two stories are so
connected. How much of the on andoff
sometimes fluid trade policy of this
administration and even for some
countries like China? Deals are not just
done yet. This is still a negotiating
process. How much are tariffs going to
be pushed through from corporate America
onto consumers?
>> And to what extent is inventory
management delaying the pass through?
And to what extent will we see more in
the months to come? And will that derail
this Federal Reserve from reducing
interest rates by the time they get to
September?
>> Well, this is the big question. We have
two CPIs, one today, one more, and
another jobs print and of course Jackson
Hall before we get the Fed meeting. And
now what the market is pricing in
because of the weak labor market that
the Fed is going to be able to cut
interest rates. Jonathan, what if we get
a hot CPI print today? Does the market
just sway completely in the opposite
direction? big focus on who's going to
be the next Fed chair as well. That
story is in the mix so far this morning.
Our latest reporting indicating the
following. The Federal Reserve's two
vice chairs. So that's Mickey Bowman,
Philip Jefferson, plus Dallas Fed
President Lorie Logan under
consideration to serve. The list is
getting longer, not shorter.
>> The list is getting longer. I would say
about 10 to a dozen names are on this
list and the process is underway. The
Treasury Secretary has taken himself out
of that list, out of that mix, and he is
running the process. What he's going to
do is try to hone it down to just a few
names, just a few names to put in front
of the president for an interview. The
one that really caught my eye was Philip
Jefferson cuz this was someone that was
appointed, remember, by the Biden
administration. But I remember the day
he was appointed and Kevin Hassid had
said, "This is an individual top
economic mind." And if I was in Trump
1.0, this would be someone I would have
no problem putting in front of President
Trump.
>> We might have a new BLS chief in the mix
as well. So look out for that
conversation later on this morning. One
single name to look at, Nvidia. In the
pre-market, it's down about a third of
1%. So, no big drama here whatsoever.
But the latest reporting from the team
here at Bloomberg, the Chinese
authorities have sent notices to a range
of firms discouraging the use of the
less advanced semiconductors.
>> So, we've seen in the past China do
this. They want to boost national
champions in China. As well as that,
they are a little bit concerned about
national security in China from US
related chips. What I would say in
speaking to Mackenzie Hawkins, the lead
author journalist on this story, the
urgency now that Beijing has to tell
these firms to look domestically, not
the US, is coming on the heels of the US
saying, "Well, we're ready to ship
them." Except for President Trump, you
can ship them if you give us 15%.
>> That stock is down by 0.3%. The broader
equity market doing okay, just about
unchanged. The calm before the potential
storm at 8:30 Eastern time. Coming up on
this program through the next hour,
Keith Lerner of Truist ahead of the
latest inflation data. John Lieieber of
Eurasia Group as China discourages the
use of Nvidia's H20 chips. Plus, we'll
catch up with Ellias Scaloo of Bank of
America as a record number of investors
worry about US valuations. We begin this
hour with stock steady as traders await
USCPI data out at 8:30 Eastern time.
Keith Lerner of Truist writing the
following. We anticipate further
consolidation of the recent sharp gains
and a reset in sentiment within the
confines of an ongoing bull market.
Keith joins us now for more. Keith,
welcome to the program, sir. Let's start
with inflation. What could derail this
meltup that we've witnessed over the
past few months?
>> Yeah, well, great to be with you on uh
CPI day. Listen, maybe a really hot
number could could be a negative. I
think in some ways though, the market
may be able to look through that. I
mean, the broader picture is we've had a
big rebound. we all know up 28% from the
lows. sentiment has kind of reset
somewhat higher and we're in this
digestion phase and I think as much as
we're focusing on just today's CPI print
what what you all mentioned earlier will
just be as important if not more
important is that employment report uh
you know next month and and then finally
I think the big picture too is you know
it's we have all these different topics
but the big picture for the equity
markets it's about profits profits
profits and we're seeing a really strong
profits uh season with you know the the
revenue beat rates are above 80% led by
tech which has uh is beating by about
about 90% of the companies are beating
as well and those forward earning
estimates for the overall market
continue to move higher as we have all
these other factors you know around it.
>> Keith you're talking about revenue can
we talk about margins just for a moment
and factor in the tariffs and how that
story might change in the future. Just
how are companies absorbing costs at the
moment? Are we seeing it through foreign
suppliers, domestic companies or are we
seeing that pass through to the end of
consumer? And I just wonder in the
months to come whether you expect that
balance to shift somewhat going into
year end.
>> Yeah, it's hard to get a a hard number
on that. I think it's a bit of a mix at
this point, but the revenue beat rates
uh suggest some of that is being passed
through because we're having 80% beat
rates from the corporate earning season.
And I I also think at where we with the
labor market weakening somewhat, I think
there's going to be some push back from
consumers if you try to raise prices. So
it's it's a mix but exactly what that
percentage is is still an open question
until and still be uh to be resolved.
But if you go back to the overall equity
market I think what we're seeing I mean
if you look at the last month the equate
index is basically flat small caps are
still somewhat underperforming. It's all
about large caps and tech tech and
communications are up 5% over the last
month and I would say they have somewhat
less exposure to some of these kind of
inflationary trends which are hitting
smaller cap and the the average stock
more. How challenging though is it for
corporate America and for earnings if
the trade story has been very fluid and
we only just got the tariff rates a few
months a few weeks ago for certain
partners and other partners are still
negotiating with the United States.
>> It is still challenging. We still don't
know the rules of engagement. But you
know the way I think about it is
terrorists are important. Uh it's not
the only thing that matters. Um we know
you know looking at the mag 7 you know
three or four companies are you know
basically spending in capex 300 or 400
billion that's almost as much as most
estimates on tariffs. There was also um
some some recent uh analysis done
suggesting that you know buybacks this
year are on pace to be above a trillion
dollars. And we also have to also
remember that these companies have been
battle tested over over and over again
through the highest inflation we've seen
in decades, the highest or the fastest
rate hike cycle that we've seen, also
disruptions in the supply chains, and
each time they've come out somewhat
stronger and those earning trends again
continue to surprise to the upside. So
listen certainly will be some winners
and losers but I will say I I wouldn't
underestimate corporations ability to
adapt and we maybe one also last stat um
the second quarter earnings season right
is actually now higher than what it was
expected uh back on liberation day. I
think that also kind of speaks to this
resiliency.
>> How does this all look for 2026? I'm
thinking of the car companies. They all
took substantial profit hits. Are they
going to have to pass them on to say new
cars that hit the lot in 2026? How slow
could we see this tariff story really
hit the inflationary impact for the US
consumer?
>> I think that's right. I think we'll be
somewhat of a gradual move up. But, you
know, also you think about the economy.
I mean, it kind of went to stall speed
somewhat if we look at the last 3 months
of jobs where, you know, we're around
15,000 I believe. Uh, and the the job
growth this year is about half the
growth from last year. So I think you
have to deal with that inflation side,
but there's also a potential that you
actually see a little bit of
acceleration in the economy from this,
you know, 1.2 1.3 closer to, you know,
1.82% next year. So I just think there
will be offsets and if you have a little
bit more inflation, I think on the
margin, as long as it's not a big pop,
which is not our expectation, then then,
you know, equities on the margin should
be able to be, you know, a little bit of
a hedge against that. Keith, can we just
finish on a somewhat controversial topic
at the moment, the data itself and how
dependable that economic data is. How
much trust do you have in the data, not
for this morning, but in the months to
come?
>> I mean, at this point, we all know the
response rates have gone down a lot and
that's been the the um you know, that's
been something that's happening since
after co. So, listen, I I think the the
the response rates is problematic.
That's why you have to look at the
breadth of the overall market and then
also take some signals from the actual
market itself. So um you know and I
think one thing where we continue to
focus is those weekly jobless claims. I
think that's still good data to be
looking at. One of the key metrics we're
looking at and also the credit market.
So uh you know we have to take what we
what we get and overall I don't think
the picture's changed in the data from 6
months ago until today. The data has
been somewhat less reflective of what's
happening because of those response
rates. So Keith, do you see this as a
welcome a welcome development in the
last month or so that we're actually
going to take a look at how this data is
produced or are you worried about the
introduction maybe injection of
political bias?
>> How about I say both? I I I think we can
all agree we have technology AI the the
I think from my perspective somebody
that looks at data every day that just
having another deep dive into this is
there a better way to do that is is
certainly welcome. Of course, if there's
some if there's also to be some
divergence between some private data
versus the public data, that will be a
concern, but that's really premature to
say at this point, but I do certainly
welcome a deep dive into this data and
getting things a little bit quicker and
more accurate early on would be would be
I think a positive.
>> I think a lot of people would agree with
you, Keith. Thank you, sir. Keith Ler
there of Truist with the later the
economic data coming out a little bit
later this morning at 8:30 Eastern time.
Look, the 3-month average on payrolls
went from solid to stall speed just like
that. This data hasn't been dependable
for quite a long time. It's not
dependable even if the effort to be as
accurate as possible is highly credible
and it's the credibility factor that's a
question here. We know this data is
prone to massive revisions, but we
accept that and we're comfortable with
it because we believe the process is
very credible. Now, whether this
development down in Washington enhances
that or undermines it remains to be
seen, but that's the worry at the
moment. It is a worry at the moment,
especially when you have conservative
economists saying that this individual
is highly partisan. If this individual
comes out and says he doesn't believe
the own data from the statisticians in
the his own commission, that is going to
put a tremendous amount of questions
with the data and whether or not
potentially it is being undermined.
>> That data, the latest drops at 8:30
Eastern time. Inflation data just around
the corner. Equity futures at the moment
just about unchanged on the S&P 500.
With an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief, let's
cross over to Yhara Arnand. Hey, Yahara.
>> Good morning, John. The US and China
have extended their trade truths for an
additional 90 days. President Trump
signed an order extending the truce
through November 10th. Had it not been
extended, US tariffs on Chinese goods
would have jumped to at least 54% at
midnight. The extension may clear the
path for Trump to meet with Chinese
President Xiinping in late October.
Meanwhile, Chinese authorities are
discouraging local companies from using
Nvidia's H20 processor, especially for
government related purposes. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg that
Chinese officials are worried the chips
could have location tracking and remote
shutdown capabilities, two things Nvidia
denies. And the Trump administration is
set to have expanded its list of
potential new Fed chairs. Officials say
the central bank's two vice chairs,
Michelle Bowman and Philip Jefferson,
are now under consideration along with
Dallas Fed President Lorie Logan.
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson will
interview the additional candidates in
the coming weeks. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next
on the program, China pushing back.
I deal with Jensen, who's a great guy,
and Nvidia. Uh the chip that we're
talking about, the H20. It's uh it's an
old chip. Uh China already has it in a
different form.
>> We'll get into the political controversy
surrounding those chips with John
Lieieber of Eurasia Group live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Inflation in focus this morning. The
estimates pretty wide. Let's focus on
one print. Month overmonth core CPI. So
strip out food, strip out energy. We're
looking at a range of estimates this
morning. anywhere from 0.1 to 0.4, but
the bulk of estimates on Wall Street
looking for something around 0.3,
the previous read 0.2.
That's going to set the tone for markets
worldwide. Equity markets shaping up as
follows on the S&P 500. Just about
unchanged on the S&P, unchanged on the
NASDAQ. Just got this tidbit out of
London from a colleague Dan Curtis. The
Japanese bombed the 10-year untraded all
day for the first time since 2023.
That just speaks to the calm before the
potential storm.
>> Well, definitely it's calm right now,
but what's going to happen at 8:30 and
we're going calm into the CPI print? The
CPI print is so important because the
market is so stacked to one side right
now. They're looking at the weakness in
the labor market. They're thinking the
Fed potentially is going to cut two
maybe three times before the end of the
year. What happens if we get a hot CPI
later today? And what happens if we get
another hot CPI print? And Jonathan,
even worse, we get two hot CI CPI prints
going into the Fed meeting and another
weak jobs report. That is what everyone
would say. Stagflationary fears.
>> A lot still to play for. That data drops
at 8:30 Eastern time. And Savanis this
morning, China pushing back.
I deal with Jensen, who's a great guy,
and Nvidia. Uh the chip that we're
talking about, the H20, it's uh it's an
old chip. Uh, China already has it in a
different form. The Blackwell is super
duper advanced. I wouldn't make a deal
with that. Although, uh, it's possible,
but the H20 is obsolete. You know, it's
one of those things, but it still has a
market.
>> It's the latest this morning. Chinese
authorities urging local companies to
avoid using Nvidia's H20 chip. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg that firms
are being discouraged from using the
chips, especially for government related
purposes. Joining us now to discuss is
John Lieieber of Eurasia Group. John,
welcome to the program. Sir, I just
wonder what the endgame is here for the
Chinese and what ultimately they're
trying to achieve.
>> I think the endgame is that the Chinese
want to have their own chip and they
don't want to be dependent on the US
tech stack. And that's one of the
reasons that Trump allowed these H20
exports was cuz he bought into the
argument that if the US dominates uh
chip technology and if the Chinese learn
to rely on that in their own technology
stacks that it brings them, it gives the
US more power, not less here. And I
think the Chinese recognize that
argument. It's it's somewhat valid. And
so what they want to do is encourage
people not to use the American tech and
and they know also how vulnerable they
are to things like the foreign direct
product rule and the other rules that
the US has used to weaponize their own
technology supply chain over the past
several years. And now that's the
long-term game here. I think the H20 is
just one part of that. Um but
technological development is going to
determine what happens here, not
necessarily export controls. John, when
it comes to Nvidia and AMD selling these
chips, getting these export uh licenses
to go back into China, what kind of push
back have you heard in Washington from
both individuals who are questioning
whether the 15% revenue cash back to
United States is legal and the China
hawks as well in the Trump
administration?
>> Yeah, I mean the 15% revenue take makes
it look like to certain people and I
think this is a valid argument that
national security is now for sale. I'm
sure a lot of companies would be very
happy if they had the opportunity to buy
their way out of US regulations that
otherwise ban them from doing business.
You know, in in a way, this is a version
of a of a carbon tax where you're
selling the you're you're purchasing the
right to pollute. But here, you're
purchasing the right to undermine
America's national security by selling
these chips to the Chinese, which a lot
of China hawks in Washington are not
happy about because they believe that
this is enabling Chinese technological
development. This is contrary to the
policy of the Biden administration and
up until last week the policy of the
Trump administration which was of course
to deny the Chinese access to these
chips. So this is a very controversial
move. It's never been done before as far
as we're aware. And I you know there's
Trump's getting a lot of push back both
from the security hawks and also uh
people who argue this is an illegal uh
export tax which I'm pretty confident
they'll find their way around but this
is something new we've never seen
before. Do you think this is a one-off
or we're going to see more policy like
this?
>> That's a good question. I think we don't
know yet. Um I don't think there's a lot
of areas where this type of thing is
doable where, you know, you've got uh an
export ban that somebody wants to that
that they're offering the chance to
raise some revenue off of. So, I'm not
sure where else we could see it. But we
still have, you know, one of the things
that's really surprising to me to
remember all the time is there's still
three and a half years left in this
administration. And we know Trump loves
to do these types of deals. So it
wouldn't surprise me to see this show up
in other areas. It's just hard to
predict which ones yet.
>> Well, John, let's talk about what we
learned from the first term under
President Trump. In Trump volume 1,
there was a coherent ideology governing
trade policy, whether you liked it or
not. I happen to be sympathetic to the
concerns they had about reciprocity in a
country like China who' put barriers to
entry up all over the place. John, now
I'm struggling with what the framework
is exactly this time around. How are you
explaining this to people at the moment?
>> Yeah, I mean the huge difference between
this term and last term is you don't
have the strong personality of Robert
Lighheiser directing a lot of Trump's
trade policies. What you have instead is
the strong personality of Donald Trump
directing these policies. And Trump is
going every which way. And you know,
it's obvious that uh in some cases he's
motivated to get a deal. We saw that
with all these countries pre August 1st.
And in other cases, you see personal
relationships starting to sour and take
over the uh ability for the US to cut
deals like what's happening with the US
and India right now. I think at the core
of it though, Trump remains a very
transactional guy. He's somebody that
wants to see higher tariffs. Uh and he's
somebody that wants to do deals in order
to keep those in order to get those
tariffs. Um with China, you know,
they've been able to leverage their use
of rare earths to and and and critical
minerals to great effect. The US
national security community is in a
panic about its ability to build weapons
in the United States because of the
choke points that China's been using to
deny the US those critical minerals and
Trump himself uh and and that's driving
a lot of the China policy right now. So
I don't think there's a consistent
strain that you can pull through here.
But it is worth pointing out that Trump
ran on a campaign of higher tariffs and
now the US is getting them with an
average effective rate somewhere in the
mid to high teens. And that's a huge
shift uh that reflects Trump's own
personality and his own policy practice.
>> Well, let's just sit on that
transactional nature. Nothing new, quite
well understood. Where people struggle
is what defines whether it's a good
transaction or a bad transaction. And
what kind of feedback loops is the
president sensitive to?
>> Well, clearly he's sensitive to feedback
from the private sector. I mean, the
reason that the Liberation Day tariffs
were paused in the first place was
because of what he called the yippiness
in the bond market. So, that's one type
of feedback. Another type of feedback
he's clearly sensitive to is direct
feedback from the business community.
His meeting with Jensen Wong directly
led to the selling of these H20 chips
into China. Uh and I also think that
he's sensitive to the positive feedback
he's getting from the deals that are
happening where his US trading partners
aren't putting up any real resistance
here. Nobody's retaliating. I think
that's an important point is that he's
faced virtually zero retaliation and
that's allowed him to get away with
these higher tariffs. Um, and I, you
know, I think going forward the feedback
that might cause him to reverse course
would be economic weakness, uh, major
complaints from the US business
community, big businesses, uh, who are
going to have the ear of the president.
And I think that that means that
probably small businesses are getting
left out of this because he's not
necessarily hearing their voices.
>> John, when it comes to the trade
agreement, we of course have the punting
of the negotiations when it comes to
China and the United States. You
mentioned the victory really of Beijing
using those rare earth magnets in lie of
making sure they can loosen up export
controls. Would you say Beijing has the
leverage going into November?
>> Uh not necessarily. I mean I think you
have to be mindful of the fact that
China is going to face higher tariffs.
They're just comfortable, you know,
their systems prepared for a level of
higher tariffs and they can deal with
tariffs in the 30% range which is where
we think tariffs on China are going to
end up here. However, you know, I don't
want to play down the fact that they
have been able to play this uh this uh
critical mineral game very very well and
the US is obviously very very sensitive
to it. Um but this is not necessarily a
positive story for the Chinese economy
either.
>> When it comes to what the United States
wants to see out of China, they're
dealing with export controls. They're
dealing with rare earths. The president
the other day was truththing about
soybeans. What else is on the list
before potentially she and Trump can
meet and potentially get to this grand
bargain of a deal?
>> Yeah, I mean, we don't see a grand
bargain. I think I we don't think a
grand bargain is necessarily the right
way to describe this. We're thinking
about this as a very transactional deal.
So, the US is going to raise its tariff
levels on Chinese goods. China will make
some purchase commitments about market
access. They're not going to
fundamentally reform their economy,
which was of course the goal in Trump
one and the goal of some of the China
hawks in this administration. Um, but
what they're going to do is make enough
promises to buy enough time uh that they
can live with these 30% tariffs and then
hope to fight that out in the next
presidential term. I, you know, I'm not
at all convinced these tariffs are going
down uh even after President Trump's
term is over. None of the China tariffs
went down after his first term and these
things have a way of being enduring.
>> John, appreciate the update. The
reaction from you sir as always thank
you John Lever there of Eurasia Group
most people assume they'll stay and
maybe even last beyond this presidency
if they stand up to legal regulatory
scrutiny in the days weeks months to
come and we'll see about that.
>> It's very true because Donald Trump the
president is using AIPA to enact a
number of his tariffs and the issue is
that is now right now being discussed in
courts. I would push back on the one
thing though that this administration
does have and yet any US government has
they can use 232 301 there are different
ways to enact a tariff policy but the
whole broad IPA sweep potentially can be
major push back from the courts on Trump
>> if you're just tuning in welcome to the
program two-part story in the last 24
hours some of these chip makers Nvidia
AMD securing export licenses into China
so long as they give a 15% slice of the
revenue back to the government to the
White House to the Treasury this is what
we're hearing for the Chinese side
according According to our reporting,
the Chinese authorities have sent
notices to a range of firms discouraging
the use of those less advanced
semiconductors. Nvidia slightly softer
yesterday, slightly firmer this morning,
not seeing big moves off the back of
this story, up this morning in the
pre-market now by 0.2%.
Coming up on this program, we'll catch
up with Ellias Galoo of Bank of America
as a record number of investors say
they're worried about US valuations.
Plus, we'll touch base with Yahara with
your morning movers. With Intel rising
after President Trump changes his tune
on the company's CEO, the stock is up by
3.4%. Live from New York, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Slow start to the trading week so far.
It's going to get busier later on this
morning when inflation data drops. Look
at this. Going absolutely nowhere in the
S&P 500. Likewise on the NASDAQ. Let's
lift the lid on the index and get you
some morning movers. 3 hours away from
the cash open with those morning movers.
Here's Yhira. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. Intel CEO Lip Bhutan must have
hit all the right notes because he is
back in President Trump's good races.
And take a look at the stock. It is
jumping 3.3%.
They met at the White House yesterday
and according to President Trump's
social media post, it went well because
he called him an amazing man. Quite the
contrast to what we heard days ago from
President Trump calling for his ouster
due to his alleged ties to China. So,
they left things on a positive note with
more talks planned at the cabinet level.
So, something tells me we may get an
announcement from Intel pledging more US
investments as the story goes. Next up,
we have this stock, Big Bear AI,
plunging in the pre-market, down 28% on
a massive earnings miss. This is a
company that provides AI software to the
US Department of Defense and it says
that that the government efficiency
drive is stalling federal contracts and
for that reason it slashed its outlook
quite dramatically. Very different from
what we heard from Palanteer, but of
course that company is in a league of
its own. And we end on Apple moving
slightly to the downside down half a
percent. But on some big drama, Elon
Musk is accusing the tech giant of
favoring Open AI's ChachiPT in its app
store, saying that Apple makes it very
difficult, nearly impossible for all
other AI apps, including his own Grock,
to reach the top of the app store. So he
is threatening legal action on antitrust
grounds. Sam Alman of Open AAI has
already hit back and something tells me
given these billionaires big
personalities, the war words is not
over. John
>> Yahara, thank you. That stock is down by
about 0.5% a stock receiving increased
scrutiny over the years so far. That's
the latest for Apple. On our radar this
morning, China telling local companies
to avoid using Nvidia's H20 chips.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
that guidance over the past few weeks
has been particularly strong against use
of the chips for government related
work. So after the US said it would
resume these sales, allow these sales
and the export licenses for these chips
to go into China, we saw Beijing
starting to raise concern security
concerns and a lot of this was really
socialized through local press. Now what
our reporters here learned led by
McKenzie Hawkins that they sent guidance
to some of these companies strictly,
please avoid these chips. They're
worried about security concerns like
tracking of location, but also for
China. This is about making sure that
they could dominate in this space and
they want their firms to use their
national champions and not rely on
Nvidia or AMD.
>> We talked to John Lieieber of Eurasia
Group about this just moments ago. There
is an alternative option, not just that
one. Also, they might be pushing for
more. Now, they know that these
companies can secure export licenses if
they give a slice of the revenue back to
the White House to the US government.
Can they push for more? Can they push
for the higher technology chips coming
out of these companies?
>> Potentially. And what and what did we
hear from the president? He said that
H20 is not as high as sophisticated as
some of the other chips that are out
there. Maybe that is why the president
was willing to reverse his own export
control we saw in April. What I would
say is that for the moment this story is
kind of calm between the rare earth
magnets and the export controls between
China and Beijing. But now, Jonathan, we
have another 90 days of these countries
going to be negotiating. What else could
we see China want to get out of the
United States? It's a story getting a
lot of attention but not pushing around
the market too much. Nvidia this morning
firmer by about 0.2%. Another story
getting a lot of attention is this one
right here. President Trump's search for
the next Fed chair has expanded. Sourc
is telling us here at Bloomberg that the
Fed's two vice chairs Mickey Bowman and
Philip Jefferson are now under
consideration for the role. Plus the
Dallas Fed president Lori Logan.
>> So I don't know if you want to call it
the Bachelor, the Bachelorette or Game
of Thrones. Obviously more names are
being added to the list. This makes
sense. We know about 10 to a dozen names
are going to be on the list for the
Treasury Secretary to sit down with
these individuals. And then once he
decides, say there's three or four names
he likes, maybe two, then he sends a
shorter list to the president and the
president will then meet that person. I
think the president's number one
question for all these people is very
obvious. Are you willing to cut interest
rates? Do you want to cut interest
rates? Do you see a path to cut interest
rates? That's pretty much going to be
it. What I found so striking about this,
we mentioned it earlier, is Philip
Jefferson. This was someone who was
appointed by Biden and then they're
willing to take a look at.
>> Yeah. Unlikely that he would get the
pick from President Donald Trump, but
it's very very obvious that the Treasury
Secretary is worried about the optics
and interested in the process. And I
think the fact that you cast a net wide
and far lends some credibility to the
process at a time when a lot of people
are asking questions about who might be
the Fed chair and what kind of approach
they'll take to the job.
>> Exactly. And this is very different than
we're seeing what the president do in
terms of BLS. He does not want to make,
at least the Treasury Secretary is not
trying to make the Fed chair this highly
partisan political appointee. So he can
go back and say, "Look at this search I
I had. We had Democrats. We had
Republicans. We had individuals from
Wall Street. Individuals who, like
Mickey Bowman, have been really one of
these individuals talking about Main
Street and regional banks. The search
was far and wide.
>> Let's talk about the BLS. You mentioned
it. The president naming a new head of
the Bureau of Labor Statistics. the
president picking Heritage Foundation
chief economist EJ Anthony to lead the
agency after firing his former head
earlier this month. Anthony subject of
course to Senate confirmation. Now this
is a process that typically people
wouldn't follow because who cares about
who runs the BLS. You don't even want to
think about it. Now a lot of people are
going to be following this very very
closely
>> and I think it remains to be seen with
this particular person on whether or not
he will get the nod from the Senate.
This is an individual who own
conservative economists. You have the
the senior fellow at the Conservative
American Enterprise Institute describing
him as quote utterly unqualified, as
partisan as it gets. And it seems like
he really pitched himself on Steve
Bannon's War Room podcast. And he's
already put a ton of doubt into the data
coming out of BLS. And this is what
individuals in the market are concerned
about. That this is someone who wants to
make the BLS partisan and politicized
even though if you're a market
participant, you want that agency
independent.
>> Best case outcome has his opportunity, a
fair hearing. He's heard and he manages
to secure some cross party support, some
bipartisan support, and we move on with
life. That's the best case outcome.
Unlikely given what's developing in
Washington at the moment.
>> Unlikely. And I would say the best case
outcome would be if this individual, if
Anthony was able to get to be the
commissioner of the BLS, maybe then he
can go to Trump and say, "Please lift
your hiring freeze. I would like more
statistitions at the BLS and I would
like to make the data more comprehensive
and more reliable so that you're not
going to see these revisions that you
don't like and your truth about."
>> The data very much in focus this
morning. Keep repeating here, but
inflation data on deck. 8:30 Eastern
time for that data point. Let's turn
back to the markets. Bank of America out
with its August global fund manager
survey showing investors are the most
bullish since February with a record 91%
calling US stocks overvalued. Joining us
now to discuss is Alias Galoo of Bank of
America. Alias, welcome to the program.
Let's just talk about that 91%. So a lot
of people seem to think many in fact the
overwhelming majority believe the US
stocks are overvalued. How many are
short? How many are underweight at the
moment?
Hey John, look clearly that's that's a
very important question to uh to to our
investors and clients because the
valuation and the perception of um
global stock market valuation was really
a highlight in this month global fund
manager survey which was not really a
decisive uh survey not like the survey
that came out in April which was a clear
moment to buy or the survey from
December 2024 which was a great moment
to to to sell the market. But this month
the highlight was really the the
perception that global equity markets
are overvalued. The highest share of
investors saying they think uh the
global equity market is overvalued since
1998 when we first starting um started
asking this this question. The share
topped even the highs observed during
the internet bubble in 1999 2000 or the
everything uh bubble in 2021. And of
course the perception that global equity
markets are very rich overvalued is
driven by the US equity market with here
as well 91% of uh FMS participant saying
that they think the US equity market is
uh is overvalued. Definitely valuations
are very important for long-term equity
investors. In fact, that is the one
factor that matters uh when you invest
in terms on on on stocks over the course
of a of a 10-year period. However, this
has not been, you know, an element that
um that caused major concerns because
investors continue to rotate towards the
US equity market. They were very
underweight in April. this under rate is
being cut progressively and despite the
very high uh perception of of
overvaluation. U the FMS positioning in
terms of US equities remain net and
weight which is really a silver lining
for US stocks.
>> So Ellias, the way you see things is
that this negative reservoir of
pessimism that we can keep feeding on in
the months to come. Can we continue to
see that grind higher?
I think, you know, this negative
reservoir of of pessimism is really what
um emboldens the bulls right now because
when you look at the the the results
from the FMS um survey this month is
that the bulls will really focus on the
macro pessimism that in fact increase
versus where it was in in July. Macro
sentiment worsened a little bit, but
also the bulls will focus on the fact
that global equity exposure stands below
the historical average. Net 14% of FMS
investors said they were overweight. The
the global equity market the historical
average since 2000 is roughly 25%. So
this based on these two metrics the
bulls will say there is further room to
go in terms of of positioning. However,
there is also some substance to uh
embolden the bare narrative and in
particular the fact that the average FMS
cash level remains at a low 3.9% which
historically has been a strong signal to
say that global risk assets are toppy as
now is a good time to retreat or hedge
your your position. When you look at the
pessimism, what has changed since the
last few surveys in terms of how
individuals are thinking about the
uncertainty coming out of Washington?
Look, the the the uncertainty in terms
of the way it is captures by the biggest
tail risk uh in in in the fund manager
has clearly receded because back in
April, if you remember, a global a
global trade war triggering a global
recession was by far the biggest tail
risk and the the the in terms of the
magnitude the biggest tail risk ever in
the history of the Fund Manager survey.
And this risk has receded with now less
than a third saying that they think
trade war and policy uncertainty is the
the the the biggest tail risk. What you
also need to consider here really here
is the convictions that really changed
over the past over the past few months.
I would say that FMS sentiment today is
based on three major conviction. Number
one, the global economy will dodge a
hard lending. Only 5% of them expect a
hard lending. The culprit here is the
much more accommodative monetary policy
they expect next year. One stat that
really stood out to me because you were
speaking about the ne the the search for
the next Fed chair just before our
conversation is the fact that a net
majority of FMS participant think that
the next Fed chair will actually resort
to either QE or yield curve control to
alleviate any concern on the US debt uh
sustainability. That's a huge
development. The second conviction is
really the fact that policy uncertainty
has receded via the the trade war. And
finally, and I would say the most
important convictions relies on AI and
the fact that AI and the Max 7 will
continue to um to lead the the this bull
market. Long Max 7 is now back as the
most crowded trade. There was a four
month interruption uh between long gold
and short US dollar. But here you can
see that the conviction on AI remains
very much intact.
>> Alias, do you see that high-tech
concentration in the US market as a
source of stability or of risk? That's a
debate we've had to start the week. How
do you view things?
>> Of course. I mean, and this is why this
is a concern because investors, you
know, the are very much concerns about
concerned about equity market valuation
mostly because of the of the tech
sector. However, when you look at the uh
the positioning on on tech, it is it
stands now below the historical average.
When you also consiliate the sentiment
data from the FMS, which is really the
equivalent of soft data to the hard data
that we that we see in terms of uh of
flows, the um over the past over the
past few months and in fact since
liberation day, there's been zero net
inflows to to US equity funds. So there
is still room for investors to buy the
US equity market and to buy uh US
stocks. And in fact, John, across our
Bank of America platforms, last week we
saw the the 10th largest weekly buying
from institutional clients in terms of
US single stocks, which shows that the
uh the the appetite to increase
allocation to US equities and to US tech
stocks remains very much uh intact.
>> It's a hated market, but they keep
buying it. Alias, it's good to catch up
as always. Thank you, sir. Aris Galuda
of Bank of America with the latest.
Let's get the latest on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihira. Hey
yhara.
>> Hi John. An explosion at a plant
operated by US Steel in Pennsylvania has
killed at least one person and injured
10. The company says the incident
involved coke oven batteries at its
Claritin plant. The CEO of US Steel says
the firm is working closely with
authorities to investigate the exact
cause. Meanwhile, President Trump is
downplaying expectations for his
upcoming meeting with Russian President
Vladimir Putin on Friday. Speaking to
reporters yesterday, he called it a
feelout meeting and said, quote, "I'm
going to be telling him, you got to end
this war and that he'll warn him that'll
be the end if a deal is not possible."
And I mentioned this one earlier. Elon
Musk is accusing Apple of favoring Open
AI, saying the company makes it
impossible for anyone else to reach the
top of the App Store charts. Musk said
Apple's behavior is an antitrust
violation and stated that XAI will take
immediate legal action. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Up next on the
program, inflation data on deck. We
think we're going to see something more
in goods inflation. I think that's the
consensus also that more of that's going
to bubble through. Um we have 0.29%
month-on-month on core CPI. Even if you
get a 0.4, if it's focused on goods
inflation, that's not too concerning for
Fed officials. Up next, we'll catch up
with the brilliant Tosson Slark of
Apollo live from New York City. This is
blimp
[Music]
live from New York City. Welcome to the
program under Savanas this morning.
inflation data on deck.
>> We think we're going to see something
more in goods inflation. I think that's
the consensus also that more of that's
going to bubble through. Um we have
0.29% month-on-month on core CPI. Even
if you get a 0.4 if it's focused on
goods inflation, that's not too
concerning for Fed officials. If you
think about the fundamental economics of
it, what we should be concerned about is
do we have a persistent uptick in
inflation or does this look more like a
one-time rise in the price of certain
goods? So here's the latest this
morning. Investors awaiting inflation
data this week with CPI due out in less
than two hours time. Torson SL of Apollo
writing, "The market is clearly
expecting rate cuts, but the upside risk
to inflation are significant. The
stackflation theme in markets is
intensifying to joins us now for more."
Torsson, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> Let's talk about the Fed's dual mandate.
Should both sides of that dual mandate
be treated equally?
>> Well, that's of course up to the
committee and importantly up to the Fed
chair. So, so far it's very clear that J
Pal and the committee have been putting
a lot of weight on the worry that
inflation is not yet at the 2% target.
So, for that reason, if you think that
inflation is now at risk of going up
because of tariffs, inflation is going
up because of the depreciation of the
dollar or that is creating an impulse on
inflation over the next 6 months where
there are some arguments to say, well,
we should not be cutting because
inflation is under some upward pressure.
On the other hand, growth is slowing
down as you know from the employment
report. There's some headwinds of
course, not only from tariffs, there's
also headwinds coming from student loan
payments restarting, especially middle-
inome households are facing some
challenges as a result of that. That
means that growth is slowing, which of
course the Fed should be cutting. But
the current administration at the Fed,
if you will, the FOMC committee is
certainly putting a lot of weight on the
inflation worries and the potential for
more inflation impulse coming over the
next several quarters.
>> Do you believe that derails some of the
impulse to reduce interest rates on the
FOMC? Well, now we, as you just talked
about, we're expanding the search for
who the next Fed chair will be. And of
course, some of these names certainly
are more traditional Fed staffers that
have been on the FOMC for a very long
period. So, that does begin to raise
questions around, well, what is exactly
the intention of the new Fed chair? But
the important thing as usual is that
there are 12 voting members on the FOMC.
And even if the Fed chair comes in and
says I think rate should go down. If the
other FMC members say no we don't think
rate should go down. Well then they will
not be cutting because it is a vote and
we will find out of course what the
composition of the committee looks like.
>> Well J Pal told us that the main number
to watch is the unemployment rate with
this kind of unemployment rate. Should
they be cutting?
>> Well the market obviously is saying we
have two cuts this year. So I do think
that the dot plot is telling you that
the next move is that rates are moving
lower. But it's very clear that this
whole debate around when you put it up
on the scale and then the dual mandate,
how much weight do you put on inflation
which is now at risk of going up, how
much weight do you put on the
unemployment rate which is at risk of
also going up. Well, that becomes a very
very difficult debate because at the
moment the Fed is currently saying well
maybe we still worry more about
inflation but if the labor market does
deteriorate more meaningfully over the
next several months and there are
chances that could happen. We have
certainly seen some of course bad data
in particular of course on the
employment report itself but also the
headwinds from in particular the
consumers in the middle inome household
group. High-income households have been
doing well for a long time because of
asset prices going up. Low income have
been stressed because of interest rates
and therefore higher cost of borrowing
from them. But the middle- inome
household now for the last few months
also facing headwinds is now also a
downside risk to the growth outlook.
>> How much has this trade story been a
headwind? because in June you wrote that
Donald Trump might have outsmarted all
of us when it comes to trade policy
which was welcomed by the White House.
>> Well, but if you think about the trade
deals that Trump has been able to
generate both with Europe and also what
he's been doing with Japan, at least
when you look at the tariff part of
that, that is beyond what most people
expected even when you go back to
liberation days. So from that
perspective, I still think that Trump
did manage to get higher levels of
tariffs with a lot of different trade
partners than what anyone really
expected in the beginning of April
during Liberation Day discussions.
>> Let's set on the data we get later this
morning at 8:30 Eastern time. To what
extent do you believe that inventory
management has delayed some of the pass
through and how many more months do we
need to see of data before you get
comfortable that we've seen the limits
of this?
>> That's exactly right. That's why the
census data for the inventory to sales
ratio. First companies were building
inventory as of course we saw tariffs
come in and those inventories have now
been running down especially for
retailers and now those inventories are
down now to a more normal level. So now
we are getting into a situation where
companies are pricing goods not so much
on whatever is left in the inventory
because there's not much left in the
inventory. It really is the new price
that includes tariffs and that's likely
why the number this morning what is most
important is not only what's happening
on the good side where most of the
worries are about inflation but the fact
that ISM prices paid for services also
showed a very strong uptrend in the
latest data is telling you that for a
long time the story was oh it's all
about goods services is fine but the
fact that ISM services paid for the last
several months have started to move
higher is telling you that there is a
bigger risk in particular also with
deportations at the same time removing
labor from the econom economy. That
means more upside pressure on wages,
especially in the sectors where
undocumented immigrants are working.
That all means that service sector
inflation could also be a very important
part of the number that comes out here
at 8:30.
>> Are you seeing this show up in inflation
expectations? Survey based inflation
expectations of consumers can be very
volatile. What are you seeing in
markets? Well, so the one-year head
swap, meaning what does the market
price, and this is people putting real
money betting on what will headline CPI
be in 12 months time is currently
pricing that inflation at this time next
year in 12 months time will be 3.3.
That's significantly higher than the
Fed's 2% target. So that's also telling
you that the market is pricing that
inflation expectations have almost
become unanchored already. Is that
because people think that inflation will
be higher on its own or is it because
the expectation now is that the Fed will
be cutting and therefore there will be
even more impulse to inflation not only
from tariffs and not only from the
dollar depreciation but also from
potentially the cut that's coming from
Fed prematurely.
>> I still think the risk is that the
market is beginning in the long end to
look a little bit more wobbly when it
comes to inflation expectations. Markets
are broadly speaking especially when you
take last week's auctions for
treasuries. There was a number of issues
with threeyear 10-year auctions last
week where you begin to worry about well
if we now have on top of the fears that
inflation might be moving higher then
rates in particular in the long end
could also be moving higher simply
because of the significant fiscal
issuance and treasury issuance still in
the pipeline.
>> Final question do you trust the data?
>> Well, what's really unique about this
discussion in markets at the moment is
that the BLS controls both parts of the
Fed's dual mandate. They control
non-farm payrolls, the employment report
and they also control the CPI and
inflation statistics. So that's why
let's take for example non-farm
payrolls. If non-farm payrolls is really
good, the market may say well this is
not necessarily the right data. This is
just done for political reasons and
therefore maybe the conclusion is that
the data is not that good. Well, what if
non-farm payrolls actually comes out as
bad or really bad? Well, then the market
will be also concluding or maybe things
are actually really a lot worse. So in
that sense credibility is very
asymmetric. That means that credibility
here really is that it is the case that
if the data does come out a lot better
or in in this case say a lot worse the
market will be putting a lens on of
beginning to ask questions about is this
the real true data or is this data that
is actually been painted with a
different brush. So broadly speaking I
do not believe under any circumstances
the BLS staff and their staff the way
they collect the data can be really
changed in any way. But it is of course
a very important debate we're having at
the moment when this discussion is of
course about firing BLS commissioners
suddenly the way it's been done here
more recently.
>> Toss, it's good to see you. Appreciate
your time. Thank you. Toss slug there of
Apollo. It's the Chinese effect. It's
how we treat Chinese data.
>> Everyone's concerned even in
conservative economic circles that this
individual is just too partisan and now
the whole independent institution is
politicized.
>> We'll see how things change down in
Washington. Up next, we'll catch up with
Stuart Kaiser of City, Michael Zesus of
Morgan Stanley, Angela Zena of CFRA, and
Elizabeth Economy.
>> The volatility so far this year is in
the headlines. It's not so much in the
market.
>> The market is being very sensitive to
who are going to be the winners.
>> In the US, the tech heavy largest
companies have been dominating the
rally. I think the market is trying to
take a slightly longer term view. Market
returns aren't necessarily going to be
blockbuster.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> 90 minutes away from the inflation
report in America live from New York
City this morning. Good morning. Good
morning to you all. The second hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now. And
check out this news at 7 a.m. Eastern
time. this market going absolutely
nowhere on the S&P 500 on the NASDAQ as
we await the first big data point of the
week. We're looking for CPI at 8:30
Eastern time. Then it's on to PPI and
retail sales later in the week, but the
main event is later this morning.
>> Absolutely. The market basically on hold
until they get the the data when it
comes to inflation. The big question is
how much of the tariff and trade policy
story out of Washington is going to now
bleed into CPI, which pretty much we've
seen the CPI reports kind of shrug it
off. a little bit started creeping into
the last report, but given the fact that
now the tariff policy is pretty much
set, barring a few countries that
they're still negotiating with, how much
are we going to see that impact pricing
pressure in the United States?
>> Payroll's growth has taken a big step
down. Will inflation data take a big
step up? And will that complicate the
Federal Reserve's objective right now in
the minds of a lot of people what they'd
like the objective to be, which is to
reduce interest rates in September?
>> Absolutely. And this is their conundrum.
So two CPI reports, one more job report
before they meet and able to get the
what they would call the totality of
data. And you know, Torstston Slock
brought up a really great point.
Immigration policy could also mean that
we can have higher wages and wage
pressure on the labor part of the story.
So what you could potentially see is
just inflation becoming much harder to
tame. And how difficult is that going to
be for this Federal Reserve?
>> Depends who the Fed chair is. We're
casting the net far and wide. The new
list of candidates will include Mickey
Bowman, Philip Jefferson, two vice
chairs, and Dallas Fed President Lori
Logan under consideration to replace
Chairman Pal next year.
>> And then of course you have the two
Kevin still there. You have of course
Chris Waller. You have um you have uh
James Bullard as well. The Wall Street
Journal reported that name that is being
floated out there. So we're looking at a
dozen names on this list. The Treasury
Secretary is running this entire
process. He's the one making the calls.
He's the one sitting down with these
individuals and then he's going to give
two or three names to the president to
sit down for an interview. And the
number one question, Jonathan, is going
to be, will you cut interest rates?
>> Give them some credit, though. These
names are highly credible. This list, I
think, is a really credible list.
Reminds me of the list of the Treasury
Secretary nominate. You remember that
big race? 6 months ago. How many months?
Nine months ago, something like that.
Time's flying. When you went through
those names, they were all very, very
credible. This list reminds me of that.
Certainly some very credible figures in
the mix. very credible and also
bipartisan. You have individuals there
like Philip Jefferson that was appointed
and then also then given a a higher job
at the Fed under the Biden
administration. And I remember when he
was appointed and Kevin Hasset said,
"This is an individual that is very
credible who if I was still working for
President Trump and it was Trump 1.0, he
would have been on my list. I have no
problem recommending this name to the
president."
>> We'll get into that conversation later
on this morning. Think we'll get into a
lot of things with equity futures
totally unchanged on the S&P 500. The
big focus is on inflation just around
the corner. We'll catch up with Stuart
Kaiser of City as Wall Street braces for
that report. Michael Zes of Morgan
Stanley as the search for the next Fed
chair is expanding. Plus, we'll speak to
Angela Zenino of CFR as China is urging
firms to avoid using Nvidia's H20 chip.
We begin this hour with stocks flat
ahead of today's CPI report. Stu Kaiser
City writing CPI could leave the Fed
with dual headaches. The base case is
the best case. Modest slowing in the
economy, easing inflation, and the Fed
cutting back towards neutral. Stuart
joins us now for more. St. Good morning.
>> Good morning. How are you?
>> Just want to give you some extra space
just to build on some of that. Why is
the base case the best case? I
>> I think our view would be if you think
of the best case right now is for most
clients is a slowing but not
recessionary economy. Fed gets a couple
cuts off in the back half of the year. I
think any data that would get you off of
those two cuts would probably read
negative for equity markets. So I think
if you're cutting more than twice, it
means the employment data is quite weak.
If you're cutting less than twice, it
probably means we get an upside surprise
in inflation. So at this point, just
give us the base case and and we'll be
pretty happy in the year end.
>> Well, look, look at the data we're
getting later on this morning. Just how
high is the bar to derail those two cuts
later on this year?
>> Yeah, it's going to be it's going to be
a little bit of a tricky print. I think
Torson, you know, mentioned earlier that
goods inflation is a big part of this. I
don't think there's really, at least
when I've talked to clients, a consensus
on what goods inflation is going to be
because it's it's just such a detail
underneath the surface. Our economists
are 33 basis points. So, if you use that
as a bogey, I think if you get anything
on goods inflation kind of above that
number um significantly above, you
probably need numbers that are 0.5 um on
some of these things to really delay
cuts. And um and so that'd be that'd be
kind of the bogey here. 0.5 or above.
>> You say in your note that equity markets
can shrug off some tariff driven
inflation. How? Well, we did it last
month, right? But the not all the tariff
rates were set.
>> Yeah. I I think at this point there's a
question of timing and magnitude on on
when the tariffs actually get into the
data. If there's one little mistake I
think the Fed made is they said we
expect to see this over the summer and
you know it could be that you get a
small amount of inflation last month and
this month but then later in the year
and you know October, November, December
based on you know inventory you know uh
draw down and stuff like that you get an
additional inflation impulse. So I think
for now if it's modest, you know, the
market's going to try to look past it
past this. We did just also get a pretty
good earning season where companies did
not call out a ton of inflation
pressure, which I think gave, you know,
equity markets a little bit more
confidence that either either a we're
not seeing it yet or b corporate America
is being able to manage it a little bit.
>> John has been talking about this, the
inventory with the pull forward effect
and at some point that inventory is
going to run out. So do you see this
being a bigger problem for the equity
market going into 2026? It could be if
it starts to get into into the margins.
I mean, Scott Cronin on our equity team
took up his earnings forecast for next
year about by by about about 5% which
gives you a sense you know on how
positive the you know the quarter has
been but yeah I mean there is a risk
going into next year that the the tariff
impacts a little bit delayed in terms of
the impact and it does start to kind of
eat into equity margins in the US a bit.
That's sort of a wait and see at this
point. We really just don't know. But
yeah, it's it's it's a lingering risk
from tariffs. And you know, even though
the tariff rates are determined, a lot
of these deals are, you know, one or two
pages of paper when ultimately they're
going to be probably a thousand pages of
paper. So I think the details we don't
even have the paper. So there so I do
think the details are going to matter a
little bit on that.
>> Yeah, this is a process also. It's not a
one-off event. How they absorb costs
right now is not how they're going to
absorb costs in the months to come.
Goldman talked about this. You mentioned
the report from Yan Hatius. Consumers in
the US have absorbed an estimated 22% of
tariff costs through June. They see the
share changing though and shifting to
67% in the months to come. How do you
anticipate the balance of things will
change in the months to come?
>> Uh it's it's you know TBD I I think at
this point and you know the other thing
is you also have a big legal process
that's going on parallel to this about
about that and you know if if they
refund tariffs you know who gets them
back. No. So I think it is it's a good
question about you know I think if the
economy is stronger corporate America
will try to test on pricing a little bit
right if the economy looks a little bit
weaker you'll probably see it go kind of
you know into margins a little bit so I
think you know this is all sort of
context dependent in terms of how strong
the economy is what the details on
tariffs are and and how much they feel
like they can push through
>> credit to you you've been super
consistent over the last several years I
would say long strong until the data
starts to break can you just define for
us the data breaking because clearly two
Fridays ago people felt like the data
was breaking.
>> Yeah, I it's the unemployment rate. I
mean, if you really wanted to distill it
down a little bit and I think you need
to get that kind of going back up to
about 4 and a.5% or above to really, you
know, kind of disrupt things. What's
interesting is if you look back to last
summer, we had three consecutive months
of sub 100k payrolls, which we're kind
of going through again now, and then you
trigger the SOM rule um at the end of
the summer and and the market kind of
suffered under the weight of those two
things. So, I think what you're really
going to need a is you need firing to
increase. This can't just be about not
hiring. It needs to be about actual
layoffs. And I think you need to see it
get into the unemployment rate and get
the number at least above four and a
half to become a real issue.
>> Well, that's the question. Is labor
market actually slowing or is it just
frozen? No hiring, no firing because
what corporate America has been telling
us is that we are putting everything on
hold because we are uncertain with
policy coming out of this White House.
>> I think it's exactly that. I think it's
an onhold frozen frozen kind of labor
market. you see that continuing bad?
>> Um, it's it's I don't know. It's it's a
little bit worse than neutral, I guess.
I mean I mean you would argue, hey, if
if the labor market's just frozen, does
that indicate no growth or does that
indicate we're just kind of settling
into a trend or subtrend growth
environment? I think the issue with all
of this is and we have a lot of clients
say, "Oh, we're going to slow down, but
we're not going to go into recession."
When you get to those transition points
though, the riskreward really falls
apart because you're going to get data
that some data that looks recessionary
and some data that doesn't. And the
markets are not going to like kind of
trading trading that balance. So yeah,
it could be a frozen labor market. It
could be you're sort of moving sideways,
but when you're moving sideways at a low
level, it means you're always kind of,
you know, on the precipice. And I think
that's going to be the issue the markets
deal with in the data, particularly if
they have a little bit less faith in the
data going forward.
>> This is not showing up in the index.
Let's be clear about that. close to
alltime highs within 1% on the S&P 500
this morning. Do you see it in the
internals? Do you see it elsewhere in
the equity market?
>> You know, definitely small cap has
underperformed. That's a big part of it.
We've seen a lot of hedging in the
credit space. A lot of folks not
comfortable going down the quality
spectrum both in just terms of earnings,
earnings reliability or in terms of kind
of balance sheet strength. So, I think
you see pockets and and the pocket there
is is quality. you know, when when we
talk to clients, and this has been our
view as well, you want to be long beta,
but you want to be playing in sort of
that higher quality neighborhood. And I
think that that's where you're seeing it
is more a a a preference for large cap,
a preference for growth, a preference
for higher quality stocks, but also a
preference to be in US equities. So, you
have that that kind of balancing act
mix.
>> We've seen the divergence between the
equal weight S&P 500 and the market cap
weighted S&P 500. Is that a divergence
to worry about? I keep going back to
this theme. We all know that the US
equity market is concentrated with big
tech. There is a big difference between
calling that a source of risk and a
source of stability. That arguably over
the past few months based on the
earnings we've seen has been a source of
stability. Any reason to believe it
becomes a source of risk in the next few
months.
>> I mean I agree it's been a source of
stability. Those MAG7 stocks are
generating earnings in the mid 20%
range. So so yeah they are kind of
acting as ballast you know for the
earnings outlook and the market. you
know where it becomes a risk is you are
sort of heavily reliant on that sort of
AI capex spending theme you know sort of
sort of supporting the entire market so
it's it's a risk if those companies need
to pull back you saw a little bit of a
shot across the bow there I think from
some of the semiconductors earnings
where they kind of talked about this
capex spending is actually starting to
negatively impact our earnings outlook
i.e. we're trying to keep up, you know,
keep up with our neighbors in terms of
spending and that can be a bit of a
headwind. So, if you've seen it
anywhere, it would be in some of the
semiconductors, I think, kind of being
pressured to spend more than maybe they
would like to.
>> You talked about data reliability,
though. I just wonder if the data coming
out of these tech firms is going to be
more reliable than the data coming out
of the BLS in the next few months.
>> I guess I'm a little bit less suspicious
of BLS data, I think, than the average
bear. But I look, I clearly cor you
know, uh, we we do audit corporate
balance sheets, so I guess yeah, that
data is is going to be more reliable
than the other. It it's funny when when
these questions come up about economic
data and then people actually drill down
into what is the sample size and how are
the estimates being done. I mean these
are all statistical estimates right and
so it's it's easy to kind of throw
stones at them but it doesn't mean
they're not reliable.
>> Just asking questions Stu and me no
views at all. Stu Kaiser City. Good to
see you mate as always. Thanks for
dropping by. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Yahara. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. The US and China have extended
their trade truce for an additional 90
days. President Trump signed an order
extending the truce through November
10th. Had the truce not been extended,
US tariffs on Chinese goods would have
jumped to at least 54% at midnight. The
extension may clear the path for Trump
to meet with President Chinese President
Xiinping in late October. Meanwhile,
President Trump has reversed his
criticism of Intel CEO Lip Bhutan after
they met at the White House yesterday.
Trump described their meeting as very
interesting, calling Tan's success and
rise an amazing story and said Tan would
meet with members of his cabinet in the
coming days. And General Motors is
renewing its push to develop a
driverless car. Sourc is telling us here
at Bloomberg the automaker is trying to
lure back some of its former employees
of its now defunct Cruise autonomous
vehicle business. This time around, the
project would be focused on autonomous
cars for personal use rather than a robo
taxi service. That's your brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you very much.
How many times have we seen this over
the past few months? If you get a
meeting with the White House, apparently
get longer stock.
>> Absolutely. It's so interesting that
this Intel CEO went to that meeting with
the president calling for his firing
publicly and now he said he's an amazing
guy with an amazing story. So, I think
for Intel, they're pretty happy with the
result of that Oval Office meeting.
>> Stock is high this morning in the
pre-market by 2.7%. Up next on the
program, expanding the search. Look, in
2019, the president contacted me and
said, "Would you serve?" And I said,
"Yes." If the president contacted me and
said, "I want you to serve," I would do
it. If he says, "Chris, I want you to do
the job," I'll say, "Yes." Governor
Waller might be the front runner, but
that list is getting a whole lot longer.
We'll catch up with Michael Z of Morgan
Stanley up next.
[Music]
Check out how sleepy this market is in
stocks and bonds so far this morning.
Equities down just a tenth of 1% on the
S&P on the NASDAQ. The bond market going
absolutely nowhere. 2-year, 10-year,
30-year bond yields. Yields unchanged on
a 10-year at 429 on twos at 377. under
Sylvanas this morning. We need to talk
about the Federal Reserve expanding the
search.
>> Whoever they choose, you're going to
have to have somebody that has
credibility with the markets or you're
going to see inflation expectations.
Spike, you will not get lower interest
rates. You will get higher interest
rates. Look, in 2019, the president
contacted me and said, "Would you
serve?" And I said, "Yes." If the
president contacted me and said, "I want
you to serve, I would do it." If he
says, "Chris, I want you to do the job,"
I'll say, "Yes."
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
search for a new Fed chair is getting
wider. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that the Fed's two vice
chairs, Mickey Bowman and Philip
Jefferson, plus Dallas Fed President
Lorie Logan, are under consideration to
replace Chairman Pal early next year.
Bloomberg's Wendy Benjaminson joins us
now for more. Wendy, welcome back to the
program. What are we learning about the
process so far?
Well, um, our colleague Sela Mosen
yesterday broke the news that the people
you just mentioned are under
consideration or being, um, considered
by Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent who
is running the search and, uh, that is
sort of expanding the universe. That
includes Chris Waller, who you just saw
there, uh, Kevin Hasset, some other
people, um, who might, you know, all be
considered for it. All these people are
sort of within the normal spectrum of
who you might select um to and there is
he does have Stephen Moran in place
right now uh or will be in place soon to
u cover Adriana Cougler's uh term until
January and then presumably any one of
these people or any of the other people
we've mentioned could replace Jerome
Powell next year when his term as
chairmanship ends.
>> Wendy, this is a very credible list.
Most people on Wall Street would agree
with that. Can we say the same thing
about the candidate that might succeed
the empty vacancy at the BLS?
>> I'm afraid not. Um this uh as you said,
all the candidates for Fed chair
perfectly within normal range should
sail right through the Senate. Now, EJ
Anthony, who we're seeing there, is will
probably also sail through this Senate
uh for confirmation, but no, he is
really Steve Bannon's pick to run the
Bureau of Labor Statistics, which is the
least sexy agency in DC. Um, it is a
place where, you know, PhD economists
and statisticians and people who really
love numbers, you know, will would would
be there to present jobs data. And this
person believes in promoting what Donald
Trump wants him to promote, which throws
into question some of the key data that
everything else is based on.
>> Wendy, appreciate the input this
morning. Thank you. Wendy Benjaminson of
Bloomberg in Washington DC. Plenty of
questions about just how easy that
confirmation process is going to be.
>> Well, first I need to go to the Senate
Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions. And there's individuals on
that committee, Republicans, who have
gone against the president who have been
vocal. So, I'm not sure. and he can't
lose a single vote in there. So, I'm
actually not sure that this is going to
be smooth sailing. There might be some
hurdles and and this could be very
contentious and potentially this
individual might not actually make it to
the institution.
>> We get more economic data from the BLS
later on this morning, 8:30 Eastern time
for inflation data. Joining us around
the table is Michael Zesus of Morgan
Stanning. Michael, good morning.
>> Hey, good morning.
>> It's good to see you. Let's talk about
the tariffs so far that are set and how
they're influencing inflation outcomes
for you and the team. How do you see
things at the moment? Yeah. So, as we're
at an effective rate of about 16%,
that's more or less where we expected to
be, but at the end of the year, so we
got there a bit faster. Uh, our
economists think that the the CPI print
you're going to see this morning is
going to show core uh about 32.32
month over month, getting you over 3% on
an annualized basis. That's the type of
thing that would show kind of two
consecutive times where there's been
some inflation acceleration and show
some reasonable tariff pass through. And
that's the type of thing that we think
helps keep the Fed on hold. uh come
September. Uh if we're wrong, right, and
you actually don't see that pass
through, that would suggest there's more
tension in the system. Companies are
eating more of that cost. Perhaps
they're have by the way they're eating
that cost is through uh labor and
through layoffs. And so that's the type
of thing that gets you even more dovish
posture. So really we're in the zone now
where the tariff outcomes, the
uncertainty in the near term is kind of
reduced and we're really kind of
watching the data to tell us what the
actual impact has been. Well, do you
have a good handle on how that 15.1% is
being spread across the supply chain?
>> Uh, not yet. I mean, so you have to
patch this together and over time I
don't think we'll really be able to tell
this story in the near term. It's
probably like a year from now we'll be
able to see what companies have said on
the record about how they've been able
to absorb the costs and really kind of
how some of their suppliers overseas to
to what extent and in what industries
they've absorbed the costs and then what
what the pass through is. So I mean
clearly there is cost burden sharing
across that supply chain. A CPI print
like this that sort of accelerates would
tell us that most of that is going to be
pushed on to the consumer. But again, we
just don't really know yet.
>> We do know that there's going to be 90
more days of this day tant between
Washington and Beijing. What are you
expecting the next talks to look like
between these two countries? What will
be the focus? Yeah, I mean listen, I
think the US still has a list of demands
that China doesn't seem particularly
willing to engage in all that much. I
mean, a lot of the tension in the
USChina economic relationship going back
to Trump's first term has really been
around the way that China organizes its
economy and the US really wants it to
change some fundamental aspects of being
a centralized uh economy and I think
China's going to be very resistant to
that. So the the sort of narrow
arrangement that they've already made,
which is effectively a swap of
semiconductors for rare earths with an
elevated tariff level from the US on
imports, you know, we think we're kind
of indefinitely in a position like that.
And maybe tariffs are going to go up and
down a little bit as the US kind of
toggles them to try and nudge
negotiations forward, but we don't
really think there's much more of a
substantive agreement coming.
>> The US market is a market that any
country would want access to. Makes a
ton of sense. Really powerful, wealthy
consumer. Are there any signs at the
moment that China is struggling without
that access?
>> Yeah, I mean there's certainly some uh
our our economists in Asia have kind of
pointed out that there's been some
weakness there as a result. Um but on
the other hand, I think things like this
news where where the US could have some
of the semiconductor companies uh pay
effectively pay a portion to the US to
sell into China and the market is
telling you that it's not particularly
concerned about that outcome, i.e. that
there's going to be full pass through.
It tells you there's probably sufficient
demand on their side and then probably
sufficient export capacity on their side
even with these barriers raised up that
none of this is sort of existential for
either economy.
>> Since you brought it up, can we ask you
what you thought of that development
just putting export licenses alongside a
share of the revenue for the US
government?
>> Yeah, I mean it's it's unprecedented,
right? And so there will be I think an
obvious question of uh under sort of
what legal framework this is
permissible. Now we're we're told the
headline that this is an agreement. So
if it's just you know sort of a bespoke
agreement and in theory this could stand
and who would actually challenge this in
court if this is a voluntary agreement
it's unclear. But of course yeah there
isn't much precedent to this and it
would matter in so much as it would
actually change the dynamic of what
could be exported. But uh I think right
now the reaction in the market is
telling you that it's an extra cost
that's willing to be borne.
>> Does corporate America need to start
thinking about this every time a CEO
goes and visits the president? Because
this was done according to the Wall
Street Journal really basically a
conversation between Jensen Wang and
Donald Trump.
>> Yeah. I I mean I I would put it on the
menu of any uh seauite official who's
talking to the president just to kind of
have in mind that this is something that
could come up because the uh you know
what our clients tell us is that uh
engagements with DC a sort of wide range
of options is always discussed. But if
you're asking us to set the president
where now everyone exporting it to China
is going to have to pay something. I I I
don't think so. I think semiconductors
are a very specific issue that goes back
over multiple uh administrations uh who
are trying to been trying to be
preserving the US technological
advantage in this space. Uh partly
because we're trying to win the AI race
as long as well as other advanced
technologies that are deemed critical
for the economic security of the US.
>> Well, Beijing basically turned around to
United States when Treasury Secretary
Scott Bessett says to his counterpart,
"We want you to structurally change the
dynamic of your economy and say, well,
now you're doing central planning, too.
Yeah, I think it's it's a fair critique,
right? And I think again, so back to to
a point about where do these
negotiations ultimately go with China, I
think the answer is they continue. The
discussions continue. You sort of avoid
reescalating to the levels that we saw
earlier this year where we had tariffs
above 100%. But these discussions can
include toggling of tariffs up and down
30% to 40 50% and then kind of a cooling
down as you go. But the arrangement in
our view has been made. It's effectively
we're going to continue to trade with
tariff barriers on certain things. But
uh uh the swap of semiconductors for
rare earths is kind of what both sides
need and we're going to kind of continue
the relationship with that as the
baseline.
>> You said it repeatedly last time around
it took 18 months. Going to see a series
of 90-day extensions before we get
there.
>> And the Treasury Secretary basically
said that to me in July. He said now we
have a cadence where we can basically
meet regularly. What I want to know is
what is on the list for the next few
meetings and all of this potentially
leading up to she and Trump meeting.
>> Michael, it's good to see you. Thanks
for dropping by. Michael Zes there of
Morgan Stanley. Up next on the program,
Angelo Zeno of CFR as China pushes back
against US chips. Plus, Yhira with your
morning movers as the makers of On Shoes
delivers a higher outlook.
[Music]
Two hours away from the opening bow, 60
minutes away from the inflation report.
Equity futures totally unchanged. Said
it all morning. It's like the calm
before the potential storm. Futures down
by not even a tenth of 1% on the S&P.
Basically unchanged on the NASDAQ. The
S&P within 1% of all-time highs. As we
count you down to the opening bell and
that inflation data, let's take a beat
to get you some morning movers. Here's
Yhierra. Hey Yhierra.
>> Hi John. We start with on holding
soaring 11% nearly erasing all of its
losses for this year after reporting a
surprisingly strong second quarter and
lifting its outlook at a time when these
footwear makers are under pressure due
to tariffs because like many others on
produces its shoes overseas in places
like Vietnam. It is undeterred with the
CEO saying that Consumer Energy remains
strong and that they actually plan to
open new stores globally to keep up with
that strong demand. So, watch out Nike.
Next up, we have shares of Hannes Brand.
They are absolutely soaring here, up
more than 40% on a possible takeover by
Canada's Gilden Activeear. The FT is
reporting that the company is in
advanced talks to buy the US underwear
maker, valuing it at nearly $5 billion
including debt. Hannes has been hurt by
tariffs on top of weak sales, but it did
report a good second quarter recently.
So, Gilding Gilden thinking that it
could help turn things around for this
struggling company. And worth noting
again Intel because it is a new day for
this company. Shares are up 2.6% 6% with
the CEO back in President Trump's good
graces. Then they met at the White House
yesterday and apparently according to
President Trump's social media post, the
meeting went well with him calling Lip
Bhutan an amazing man with an incredible
story. Quite the contrast from just days
ago when he was asking for him to resign
over his alleged ties to China. So they
left things on a positive note and we
may see a fresh pledge from Intel on US
investments. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. Stock
is higher by 2.6. 6% and our radar this
morning. China urging local companies to
avoid using Nvidia's H20 chip,
particularly for government related
purposes. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that China aims to shift away
from Western chips in favor of local
alternatives.
>> So, two things going on here with
Beijing. One, they're concerned about
some of the potential location tracking
they say coming out of US chips. You see
Nvidia really pushing back against that.
And also, they want to make sure that
their own domestic champions are the one
that their firms are relying on. What's
interesting about this, and according to
Mackenzie Hawkins, the lead journalist
on this story after the US said it would
resume allowing these sales to go
through, you've seen it in Chinese media
basically saying stay away from these
chips. But now that we've learned,
they've sent this guidance. There's more
urgency from Beijing because the Trump
administration told Nvidia and AMD, go
ahead, get those export licenses as long
as we get 15% cut.
>> Hugely controversial 24 hours for this
sector. In just a moment, we'll catch up
with Angelo Zeno of CFR to get his views
on that. So stay tuned for that. I
wanted to squeeze in this story as well
that the president is tapping EJ Anthony
to lead the Bureau of Labor Statistics
after firing the former head of the
agency. Trump posting on truth social
that Anthony who comes from the Heritage
Foundation will ensure that the numbers
released are quote honest and quote
accurate.
>> So the concern is because this
individual is highly political and very
partisan and even there's a ton of push
back from conservative economists. The
question is, will this undermine the
data? Will the data just be seen as
political? And I still wonder whether or
not he can actually get through the
Senate. Libby Cantrell after the firing
of the BLS chief put out a great note
and was talking about the fact that this
individual needs to get through a
subcommittee and that on that
subcommittee where they cannot lose a
single Republican vote in order to make
sure they can advance to a full hearing,
there are individuals who have not been
afraid to go against this president,
voice their concerns. Senator like
senators like Susan Collins. So
potentially this might end up not
happening at a very low level in the
Senate. This person might not even see a
hearing.
>> I think we've got to draw a distinction
between dependable and credible. The
data when it's released in the minds of
a lot of people on Wall Street isn't
dependable because it's revised so much.
It's prone to heavy revisions. But the
process, the perception of the process
on Wall Street is highly credible. And
that's what we're talking about this
morning. the credibility of the data and
whether this will undermine it or
enhance it. I think a lot of people on
Wall Street share the views that we
should have a look at the process maybe
enhance the credibility of that process
and then we can make it maybe more
dependable. I think that's a worthwhile
pursuit and we've talked about it
endlessly over the last week with this
selection if it becomes heavily
politicized in Washington particularly
the confirmation hearing. It's not going
to help things. And you heard from
Torson Slock of Apollo, this stuff is
very, very asymmetric. And a simple way
of saying that is just look at how we
treat Chinese data. Every single month
it comes out. We've been doing this for
years. When it's good, we say can't be
that good. And when it's bad, we say it
must be really bad. And you don't want
to see that happen with US data
releases.
>> Absolutely not. It undermines the
institution and also it undermines the
market confidence of that data. The best
case scenario could be if this
individual doesn't talk about the data
and just runs it as an independent
institution, leaves it up to the
statistitians, which by the way, the
commissioner only sees the report a day
or two before it goes to the president
of the United States. And maybe this
person, given his close proximity and
relationship with President Trump, could
actually get the Trump administration to
lift the hiring freeze. Maybe they get
more statisticians. Maybe they look at
AI advancements on how to actually make
the data more reliable. That's what a
lot of people would like to see in
Washington. That's for sure. That's the
latest on the BLS. I wanted to squeeze
in this as well. The president
downplaying expectation for his upcoming
meeting with Vladimir Putin. Trump
describing it as a feelout meeting where
he plans to tell Putin to end the war in
Ukraine, but says they might leave
without reaching an agreement. You'll be
there. How high are expectations?
>> Well, I think the president just really
dialed down those expectations. And this
is what I said yesterday going into this
meeting. My thought process was always,
as Trump said, feeling it out. This is
basically a beginning of a process. But
even if the president is able to say
there's not going to be a peace
agreement from one meeting when also one
party is not there in terms of Voodimir
Zalinski. But if this is the start of a
process to hammer out really difficult
long-term concerns, especially security
concerns, then potentially this is a
path to getting to that bigger peace
agreement.
>> That meeting is set to take place this
coming Friday going into the weekend. So
look out for that. Let's turn back to
technology. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that China is discouraging
domestic companies from using Nvidia's
H20 chips. Angela Zeno covers Nvidia for
CFRA and as a buy rating on the stock.
Angelo joins us now for more. Angelo,
welcome to the program. So, you've
talked a lot about getting access to the
Chinese market and the extent to which
Nvidia has derisked their exposure to
that story, but we just love your
initial reaction to the news of the last
24 hours. Truly unprecedented.
>> Yeah. No. Uh, absolutely. It really is
unprecedented and you know it'll be
interesting to kind of see how this kind
of changes the dynamics you know for the
tech industry in the and semiconductor
industry in the future as well as uh
potentially other industries. But I
would say kind of on the surface um I
think this is pretty good for both sides
in many respects especially for a
company like Nvidia. I mean it does now
give them access to the second most
important semiconductor market out
there. Um so they are going to get
significantly higher revenue um in the
you know we think north the run rate
north is north of 30 billion at this
point in time for this company but you
know more importantly the addressable
market expansion story the you know the
branding uh uh expansion you know
customer base expansion story here
greater diversification and what have
you great for the long-term potential of
this company access to more developers
is a huge key um for Jensen Wong here
half the world's developers are in
China. So, that's that's a huge part of
the story here for Nvidia and even an
AMD out there. And then um you know, we
think also it helps kind of potentially
slow down the Huawei um story, right? I
mean there there's been a lot of fear
that um Nvidia not being in China would
only strengthen Huawei and by now Nvidia
kind of being able to go back into China
and even potentially at some point you
know rolling out a tempered down version
of their black well chip I think um gets
uh developers more um you know tied to
Nvidia's ecosystem and hopefully slows
down that Huawei story. Angela, often
difficult to get access to decent market
data out of China, but I'd love your
read on things at the moment, just how
you're running the numbers. Can you
share with us what you think the market
share of Huawei is currently in China?
And given that the last 12 months of
business for Nvidia has been highly
disrupted, how you think about things
looking 12 months out, their share of
revenue going forward, and ultimately
the kind of slice that the White House
can anticipate.
>> Yeah, I mean, those are all great
questions, right? And um to your point,
there's there's that very limited data
there. I think when you think about what
we know is, you know, there was
basically potentially an $8 billion run
rate for Nvidia um just a couple of
months ago. And when you think about
what uh JSON has said is, you know, he
viewed the the 2026 market as
potentially a 50 billion or so um
addressable market um in China next
year. And you know, our view is, you
know, Huawei has gotten stronger here
over the last couple of months. We do
think Huawei with their nextg chips um
in 2026 and the fact that um China does
want to continue to support that local
brand and Huawei being that crown jewel
that they are um will you know continue
to allow them to you know gain more
share on that side of things. But our
view again of that $50 billion market
Nvidia should be able to take at least
um 30 to 35 billion and again that
doesn't really assume much higher growth
from the current run rate. So, we do
think there's upside to that. Um,
especially if the beat if there's a
tempered down uh black oil chip that
does launch into China here over the
next couple of months and um on AMD
side, it's going to be a lot smaller in
nature, but we think at least 3 to 5
billion from their perspective. So, you
could almost kind of back into what
Huawei would be on that side of things.
Um but Huawei is is going to be kind of
a key um you know story for um China
here over the next couple of years. And
um as far as the the administration is
concerned here, I do think um you know
they do want to make sure that um you
know that I think their growth agenda
really over the next couple years um
under the Trump administration is going
to be tied to AI. So having access to
those developers, what Jensen is kind of
throwing in to the US administration um
I think means a lot to how the
relationship between um China and the US
is going to go here. Does it basically
mean that export licenses are now for
sale in the United States?
>> I think the um you know I think when you
think about the u the US administration
here, they I think they've got a pro um
economic agenda more so than anything
else out there. So if you're kind of
asking me is is there a price for you
know President Trump here? Um I think
under the right situation um you know I
I don't want to say he can be bought but
in many respects I think um there is a
certain price that can be paid to a
certain degree right I think there are
definitely national security issues tied
to um semiconductors here I but I think
you know maybe instead of being three to
four generations behind if you're
potentially only two to three
generations behind or one to two
generation uh generations behind I think
there are conversations that can be had
um with this administration
you know, if the price is right and the
trade deal is correct.
>> So, if China is telling its firms to
snub the H20, what chip do they want to
get their hands on that potentially the
Trump administration would have put a
price on?
>> Yeah. I mean, listen, I think when when
you think about the um you know, the
Chinese market here, it is really all
about the developers and the developers
are continue to be really tied um and
tethered to Nvidia's software ecosystem.
And that's why it's really important for
u developers in China to have access to
the H20 right now. Um and again I think
um ideally you know the H20 is not
suited for machine learning. It's great
for um inferencing and I think similar
when you when you see a tempered down
version of a Blackwell chip again it'll
be Blackwell is kind of this inferencing
uh plat you know massive platform out
there. So I think when when you think
about um you know the Chinese um when
you think about China, they'd love to
have um you know that nextgen uh
platform, but um you know I don't know
if there's kind of a situation out there
where they're going to exactly get what
they want from the US administration
that is kind of the next latest and
greatest chip.
>> Angelo, appreciate reaction. Thank you
sir. Angelo Zena there of CFRA on Nvidia
and the developments of the week so far.
Let's keep an update on developments and
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahiara. Hey
Yahara.
>> Hi John. The Trump administration is
said to have expanded its list of
potential replacements for Fed chair Jay
Powell. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the central bank's two vice
chairs Michelle Bowman and Philip
Jefferson are now under consideration
along with Dallas Fed President Lorie
Logan. Meanwhile, city CEO Jane Frasier
is in Mexico City for talks with
President Claudia Sheen Bomb. sources
telling us here at Bloomberg they're
discussing a potential public listing of
city's retail Banamex unit. It's unclear
if Shien Bomb is imposing any conditions
on the sale or IPO of the unit. And Ford
has unveiled a $5 billion plan for a new
line of budget electric vehicles
starting with a $30,000 pickup truck set
to roll out in 2027. And CEO Jim Farley
calls it a bet to take on Chinese
rivals, warning there are no guarantees
in the unpredictable US EV market, which
as we know has been struggling as of
late. That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yhara in about 30 minutes time. Up
next on the program, dealing with China.
>> We've been dealing very nicely with
China as you probably have heard. Uh
they have tremendous tariffs that
they're paying to the United States of
America. They've been dealing quite
nicely. The relationship is very good
with President with President Xi and
myself.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Elizabeth Economy of the Hoover
Institution. Live from New York City,
you're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Inflation data 42 minutes away. The
estimates look like this. Core CPI month
over month 0.3%. That's the median. The
range is wide. 0.1 to 0.4. And the
uncertainty is high. This from city just
moments ago. Andrew Honhorse expecting
the larger and more widespread upside to
goods prices. Not likely until the fall.
This is going to take a few months.
That's the latest data you can
anticipate in about 40 minutes time.
Here's the price action going absolutely
nowhere going into it. We're down just a
tenth of 1% on the S&P. Similar move on
the NASDAQ 100 and the surveillance
elsewhere this morning dealing with
China.
>> China tariff deadline is tonight, but do
you plan to extend that?
>> Uh we'll see what happens. China's been
uh we've been dealing very nicely with
China as you probably have heard. Uh
they have tremendous tariffs that
they're paying to the United States of
America. Uh and we'll see what happens.
They've been dealing quite nicely. The
relationship is very good with President
with President Xi and myself.
>> Here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump waiting until the
11th hour to extend the China trade
truce for another 90 days, saying all
elements of the agreement remain the
same. Bloomberg Karan joins us now for
more. And welcome back to the program,
sir. It's been too long. Please
translate the following. They've been
dealing quite nicely. The relationship
is very good with President Xi and
myself. What does that mean, Ender?
>> Well, it certainly means they've got a
new window now for negotiations,
Jonathan, on these tariffs. Uh you
remember um the tariffs had had that
poll not gone into effect, you would
have been talking about tariffs in the
50s 50 odd% range today. Instead,
they're sticking at that 30% area.
Obviously, the effective tariff range is
much higher. But the broad point is
tariffs are on hold for now. a new
window for negotiations on all those
topics such as export controls,
fentinel, maybe more soybean purchases,
h and of course excess capacity on the
Chinese side. All these issues are on
the table and on paper at least uh you
know taking this at face value it may
the thinking is it may lead to some kind
of agreement in the fall when the two
leaders have an opportunity to meet at
one of those uh fall summits perhaps one
in South Korea for example and perhaps
they can ink a kind of a trade deal
there but as I say that's the headline
take on it obviously honor the bonnet
there are a lot of tensions and
differences still still to be played out
on all of this
>> and the current down in Washington DC
let's explore some of those differences
joining us now Elizabeth economy of the
Hoover Institution and the former senior
advisor advisor for China in the
commerce department under President
Biden. Elizabeth, welcome back to the
program. It's good to hear from you. I
want to lead on your expertise here and
your experience and something I know
you're thinking about at the moment. Are
we blurring the lines between national
security and trade?
Yeah, I mean I I think that is a a
question that was clearly raised uh over
the past week uh or two with the
president's President Trump's decision
to uh reverse uh his administration's
earlier decision, April decision uh to
put the export controls on Nvidia's H20
chip. uh you know typically you put an
export control on technology uh that you
believe uh could contribute uh to uh you
know a country or companies uh in that
country uh developing military
capabilities that will undermine your
national security. So that was the
decision that the administration made
just in April. Uh and then we saw you
know just uh earlier uh this month that
the president reversed that decision
without any explanation uh as to why uh
that decision was being reversed. And I
think it points to a larger challenge
with this administration and that they
have not yet articulated a real China
strategy. We don't know whether this
president uh considers China to continue
to be the greatest long-term strategic
threat, which is something that his
first administration uh did uh put out
there as part of a China strategy that
helps an administration set priorities.
You know, understand the trade-offs that
you're going to make or not make. Uh but
without that kind of overarching
framework, we don't know, you know,
where this president is coming from,
where he's going, whether everything is
up for negotiation moving forward.
>> Elizabeth, given your work in the
commerce department, have you ever seen
anything like this? Some corporation
able to get their hands on a license
because they're willing to give some of
the revenue back to the US government?
>> No. I mean that was certainly a new
twist but even taking one step back from
that it's a new twist to have uh the
head of the Bureau of of Industry and
Security uh Jeffrey Kesler go to London
to be part of the trade negotiations
with China. You know in the B
administration and frankly in all
previous administrations you would never
consider linking export controls with
trade negotiations. Export controls deal
with broad issues of foreign policy and
national security. you know, tying them
in in some way to trade really makes no
sense. But that's what this
administration has opened the the sort
of the door to. Um, so I think it's a
it's a a bigger problem even more than
just this one-off decision. It's just
this new, you know, world that we found
ourselves in. And as far as the 15%
revenue, uh, you know, the sort of, you
know, Nvidia and AMD having to give 15%
of their China that revenues from the
sale of these chips, uh, back to the US
government. Of course, that only sort of
amplifies or reinforces the sense that
somehow our national security is up for
sale. Uh because, you know, does that
mean that all chips moving forward or
even other goods that the United States
uh you know, sells to China can all then
be subject to some kind of new tax of
some sort uh and the revenues will have
to come back to the US government. It
really is fundamentally changing the the
nature of the inter relationship between
national security and trade and frankly
just trade generally. There's a number
of issues brewing between these two
economies. Fentinel, China continuously
buying Russian and Iranian crude. Um
disagreements about US business
operations in China. When they sit down,
what do you think is the US's main goal
out of this relationship?
I mean I I would have said in the first
Trump administration that there was an
emphasis placed um first on of course
securing these big purchase agreements
um that uh you know again President
Trump uh seems to place as a top
priority. He mentioned um just yesterday
or the day before having China quadruple
uh its purchases of of soybeans. Of
course China's already diversified away
from the US. it gets 70% or more of its
soybeans from Brazil now because of the
tariffs that the president began the
tariff war that he started when he first
came into power. But I think number one,
yes, getting more purchases um uh from
the Chinese. But I think also uh the US
wants a secure and stable uh supply of
rare earth elements uh from China, which
are of course essential for both our
national security um and technology
industries. uh and we saw what happened
when China put the squeeze on those um
you know earlier just a month or two
ago. Uh you know companies in the United
States really began to feel the pinch.
Uh so I think that's probably the second
priority and then all of the trade
adjacent issues that you just mentioned
fentanyl uh you know China's economic
support for Russia uh in its war of
aggression against Ukraine um you know
Tik Tok is still standing out there but
I think those fundamental issues around
the Chinese economy things like uh
China's export of its over capacity in
many areas of of core technologies I
think those are going to be very
difficult for the Trump administration
to make progress on. I don't think they
have the leverage uh that they need or
maybe that they even think they have to
get China to sort of fundamentally
change the way that it does business.
>> We're up against the clock here, but in
the 45 seconds we have left, Elizabeth,
why has it been so difficult to convince
the Chinese they need to rebalance their
economy when so many economists agree
that it might be good for them?
I mean I think Xiinping has a vision of
of how the Chinese economy should work
um which is reliant on exports and heavy
investment uh you know investment now
into core technologies and he believes
it is working for the Chinese economy uh
and is willing to suppress uh Chinese
consumer demand and and Chinese incomes
uh to achieve what he believes will be
will put China in a a stronger long-term
footing moving forward.
>> Elizabeth Economy of the Hoover
Institution. Elizabeth, thank you.
Appreciate it as always. That final
point, it's so important. Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson has been on top
of this now for quite a while. Pushing
this economy, this country to rebalance
is a big goal of his. It's incredibly
difficult to achieve.
>> Incredibly difficult. And even when the
US was pretty much taken off the market
for them with a sky-high tariffs, what
did we see? We saw their imports, their
exports into other economies like the
European Union actually go up. They will
find a place to dump.
>> Up next on the program, one story
dominates everything in financial
markets worldwide. Inflation data on
deck. 34 minutes away. We'll catch up
with Greg Peters of Py Fixed Income.
Shuterita Gadali of Forester, Tiffany
Wilding of Pimco, David Kelly of JP
Morgan Asset Management. The third hour
of Bloomberg Surveillance up next.
[Music]
We've been calling this environment
stagflation light. You're going to have
inflation that is just kind of sticky,
but you're not necessarily going to see
a big pop.
>> We're not expecting a reaceleration.
>> What we should be concerned about is do
we have a persistent uptick in
inflation?
>> It's also quite possible that we'll see
a slowly increasing inflation rate.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. The third
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance starts
right now. Looking ahead to tomorrow,
this just in. Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson in the studio here in New York
City tomorrow morning 7:30 Eastern time.
Get that one on the calendar. Don't miss
that and don't miss this. 30 minutes
away inflation data. Here are the
expectations. The median guess 0.3% for
core CPI month overmonth for headline
0.2. For year-over-year, we could creep
back into the threes going into the
Federal Reserve meeting next month in
the middle of September. Equities at the
moment have been a snooze all morning
going into this. Futures unchanged on
the S&P, unchanged on the NASDAQ.
>> This is why the conversation tomorrow
with the Treasury Secretary will be so
important depending on what we see from
this data. How much of this insight will
we get from the data on Trump's tariff
policy? Are we finally starting to see
the trade policy creep into consumer
prices? And this is something, Jonathan,
this administration when they were on
the campaign trail ran on. We will make
it a more affordable America. Well, is
that going to be true depending on these
numbers we see later later this morning?
>> This will shape a lot of guesses about
what the Federal Reserve will and won't
do come September. The man in charge of
what this might look like next year is
the president of the United States. And
the man in charge of the list that will
land on the president's desk is the
Treasury Secretary. And that list
replaced Chairman Pal. It's getting
longer. It's not getting shorter.
>> It's getting a lot longer. There's about
a dozen names or so now. I would say 10
to 12 names on this list. And Mosen, our
colleague in Washington DC has added
last night three more. Michelle Bowman,
Philip Jefferson, and Lorie Logan. And
you've done a really good job this
morning pointing out that this list is
highly credible, especially when you
have the likes of individuals already
serving on the FOMC and individuals like
Philip Jefferson. This is someone who
was appointed and then given a higher
title under the Biden administration.
So, no one can look at this list and
say, "This is not credible. These are
highly successful economists and other
individuals in the space that could
potentially take on from the chair."
This story is going to play out over a
number of months. Inflation story as
well. Going into it, equities and bonds
doing nothing. I've talked about stocks,
bond yields this morning almost totally
unchanged on 10s at 429 on twos at 377.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Greg Peters of Pim Fixed Income with
risk assets holding steady. We'll speak
to Such Gadali of Forester on the state
of the US consumer. Plus, David Kelly of
JP Morgan Asset Management reacting to
that inflation data. We begin this hour
with stocks little changed as markets
await the latest read on inflation. Greg
Peters, a page of fixed income, writing,
"Higher effective tariffs are now a
reality, but their impact on activity
and inflation in the US and the rest of
the world is still unclear." Greg joins
us now for more. Greg, welcome back to
the show, sir. It's good to see you.
Let's talk about what you and the team
are looking for in 27 minutes time.
>> Yeah, so I mean I think we're largely in
line with consensus. There's a lot of
focus obviously on this print. I think
the bias u is for anything kind of below
0.4 on core uh is a signal for the Fed
to ease in September. Anything above
calls that into question. So I think
there's a real skew here. But you know
what I haven't heard talked about a lot
uh is the shelter component which is a
very large component to the overall CPI.
It might not manifest itself in this
print. But what I think you'll see over
the upcoming months is this pushpull
between yes, you will see inflationary
effects of the tariffs and you're seeing
it already, but that's going to be
almost completely muted by what's
happening on the shelter component side.
Uh and so um I really don't see
inflation getting out of control here.
Maybe moderately higher, but uh if
anything, I see the bias lower, not
higher inflation. Greg, let's just stay
on that theme. It's an important one.
The offset that you might get from
services inflation. If you're on the
FOMC right now, is there good reason
then to look through what you might see
develop on the good side and put some
more weight on developments on the other
side?
>> I think so. I I mean I think that's the
story. I I mean it is manifesting itself
uh in payrolls too. Um and the labor
force, right? So what you're seeing is
companies have a couple decisions to
make of course you know whether they uh
eat the tariff they lay off workers in
order to defend margins or uh uh raise
prices right and what I think you're
seeing is just a cooling of the job
market at large um and I think that's
due to tariffs and I think that should
be the focus of the FOMC and my
suspicion is uh anything other than a
really hot print around you know CPI I
will, you know, move them forward as far
as uh the rate cutting cycle is
concerned.
>> Greg, do you have an understanding yet
of exactly how the tariffs are impacting
consumers? What percentage are they
paying if say the new average rate is
15%.
>> I don't think we know, right? This is
what makes us so challenged and I know
it's a terrible answer to say we don't
know, but that's the right one. Uh but I
think we'll know more over time, right?
We're still in the very early stages.
There's been an inventory rebuild. uh
there's been an everchanging kind of
tariffing rate. So I just don't think we
know yet. But but I do think over time
that cost will be passed on and once
again it's going to be passed on either
through uh uh less labor demand uh uh or
increase in prices. But I'll tell you
what we are seeing is that companies
that are actually more levered uh that
have to defend their margins and must
pass those price uh through they're
actually doing so uh uh and companies
that have a little more wiggle room
they're trying to buy share uh and
they're allowing kind of prices to
remain fixed here. So over time I think
that'll that'll converge but that's an
interesting development early on I
think. Well, if you don't know and the
Fed doesn't know, how much optimism are
they going to have basically uh when in
September when the meeting rolls around
to cut rates?
>> Well, because I think the focus will be
on the labor side. Um um uh and
rightfully so. So, you are seeing a
cooling around labor. Uh and then
ultimately the tariff uh inflationary
impact is a a quote unquote one-time
impact, right? So it's not persistent as
far as the the change is concerned. Yes,
that inflation's in a system, but it
doesn't obviously continue to rise
necessarily. So I I think the focus will
be on labor um and the economy more so
than the tariffing effect.
>> Greg, I wonder how it might be for the
rest of the market. If we can start
talking about what this could mean for
bond yields. If you begin to get a
sense, if the broader market begins to
get a sense that this Fed will
prioritize one side of the dual mandate
over the other and begin reducing
interest rates with headline inflation,
maybe back into the threes. Does that
unlock higher yields at the long end?
>> Well, I think it's a curve steeper no
matter how you look at it, right? So,
uh, you know, you're seeing that play
out. I think there's more room for that
to go, of course. Um but yeah, I I mean
there's a variety of different reasons
why I think backend yield will remain
stickier uh relative to the front end uh
uh you know risk/term premium uh what is
one measure of that uh uh and that's why
I think what's kind of lost in here is
that all this focus on the Fed reducing
interest rates in order to get mortgage
rates down and help the consumer so on
and so forth that's that's going to be
offset by the term prema effect right so
you're not going to see the same pass
through um into mortgage rates uh as an
example and I think it's going to be
somewhat of a self-limiting strategy.
>> We saw an episode of this drama just
last year. Greg, do you remember that
they cut interest rates by 100 basis
points? Of course, that anchors the
front end. Longen sold off. Do you see
reasons for a repeat then? And what was
the lesson from that experience? Is it
the same thing all over again?
>> I Yes, I do think uh uh you know it's
the same thing. Uh uh what's interesting
is that I thought the administration uh
was very much uh tuned to that as well,
but I think they've kind of shifted the
narrative what along the way. But yes, I
do think that the bond market is going
to reflect these additional risk
factors, namely the debt and deficit,
mainly the kind of the push back around
foreign, you know, demand. So, uh, yeah,
all else equal, I don't think you're
going to have the same response, uh, to
the belly of the curve, the back end of
the curve, uh, to the front end that you
ordinarily would.
>> Now, Greg, does that lead to tighter
financial conditions overall? What would
that mean for broader financial
conditions?
>> Well, it should all equal, but financial
conditions are just incredibly easy
right now, which is why it's uh often
hard to make the argument that policy is
currently restrictive, right? if you
just look at you know financial
conditions but I think over time just
that that beta effect or less of a beta
effect where the 2-year will let's say
rally 100 basis points and the you know
the 10-year will only rally 50 just as
an example I think that'll have an
effect over time and that does hurt
consumers over time uh which is why it's
just incredibly important to show some
uh path around the fiscal side uh uh
because I think what the bond market's
looking for uh what is a greater focus
on uh the fiscal. Now, somewhat
ironically, the tariff income that's
coming in, bond investors are looking at
that and they say, "Wow, this isn't so
terrible." Uh but the question is, will
that remain in place or not?
>> Greg, basic question. Just play this
out. Let's just think about things.
Let's say the courts come out and say
these tariffs can't go forward. They
vote against them. Let's go with that.
Greg, what would that mean for fixed
income? What would that mean for bonds?
Would bonds rally or would they sell
off?
>> Well, what I would I think it would just
uh enhance the curve steeper. I I would
I think what you would see is just uh uh
just additional kind of movement or lack
of movement, I guess, uh in the front
and back end. That just puts more
pressure on the fiscal story and forces
the government in ways that how to kind
of cut spending. um the and I think we
all know how difficult that is. So yeah,
I would I think that's uh bad for the
bond market uh um just because those
revenues are desperately needed.
>> Greg Peters at Pentium Fixed Income.
Greg, appreciate the outlook. Greg
Peters there looking ahead to inflation
and looking ahead to what might happen
if the courts strike down these tariffs.
>> Well, two things I'd say. it would
definitely hurt their talking points
because a lot of the times when they
talk about the offset to the one big
beautiful bill is the fact that the CBO
does not dynamic score with the tariff
money coming in. So that's their first
issue. The second though I would say is
that we might get a knee-jerk market
reaction, but then the market would
realize the tariffs can stay. They're
just going to have to use a different
path forward. No more AIPA. They're
going to have to use 232 301. There are
other ways to enact a tariff agenda
without using this broad sweeping IPA
plan.
>> It gets messier, potentially more
volatile. Nothing volatile about this
morning. so far. That might change in
about 20 minutes when inflation data
drops. Let's give an update on stories
elsewhere so far this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahiara. Hey
yara.
>> Hi John. Chinese authorities are
discouraging local companies from using
Nvidia's H20 processor, especially for
government government related purposes.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
that Chinese officials are worried the
chips could have location tracking
capabilities and remote shutdown
capabilities. Nvidia denies that.
Sticking with China, Chinese real estate
giant Everrand Group will be delisted
from Hong Kong's stock exchange. The
move marks the end of an era with
Everrand at one point being the
country's largest developer by sales,
but its downfall symbolizing China's
sweeping real estate crisis. Shares will
be removed on August 25th. And for the
Swifties, Taylor Swift has announced her
12th studio album. Swift revealed the
new album titled The Life of a Showgirl
during a cameo on the New Heights
podcast hosted by her boyfriend Travis
Kelsey and his brother Jason. There are
no details on a release date for the
album. Dr. Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate the update.
Thank you very much. Up next, the
morning calls. Plus, Suterita Kadalia
Forester with a read on the US consumer
head of a key inflation print from New
York City. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
the number this morning. What is most
important is not only what's happening
on the good side where most of the
worries are about inflation but the fact
that ISM services paid for the last
several months have started to move
higher service sector inflation could
also be a very important part of the
number that comes out here at 8:30
>> to stock of Apollo just absolutely
fantastic joining us on the program a
little bit earlier anticipating the data
point we're all looking forward to 15
minutes away inflation data in America
equities trading water into it unchanged
on the S&P likewise on the NASDAQ 100
that's the price action Here are some
morning calls. First up, bad upgrading
Starbucks to outperform, citing
confidence in its turnaround strategy.
Your second call from JP Morgan raising
its price target on Micron to 185,
emphasizing strength in pricing. And
your third and final call from Luke
Capital, upgrading five below to buy,
highlighting recent merchandise and
pricing changes. That stock is up by
1.6%. Let's stick with the consumer CPI
data just minutes away. Such gadali
covers retail for Forester and joins us
now for more. Serita, welcome to the
program. Welcome back, I should say.
Let's look ahead to this data point. In
14 minutes time, what's the pass through
that you've gauged so far from the
tariffs, which are now fixed in many
cases, to the consumer?
>> Well, we haven't seen the tariff impact
um significantly on consumer spend yet.
The consumer spend levels um to date
seem to be relatively resilient.
Although the story is varied depending
on the kinds of retailers that you're
looking at. It does appear that a lot of
shoppers are trading down to value
merchants whether it is the dollar
channel or it is the mass merchant
channel through stores like Walmart um
or even off-pric stores like a TJX. So
that's certainly what we seem to be
seeing is more of the psychological
impact of what could be um tighter belts
that tighter wallets that shoppers need
to have versus necessarily that they're
seeing any inflationary impact um of
tariff prices being passed on to
shoppers.
>> Are you gauging a limited a much more
limited price tolerance this time around
compared to say the inflation scare
coming out of the pandemic?
Well, I think that um it there's a lot
that remains to be seen. It depends on
which categories that are going to be
facing those higher numbers. Where we've
seen um a number of inflationary issues
post where we saw them during the or
following the pandemic was in a lot of
very prominent um shopperf facing items
primarily whether it was gas prices or
it was um grocery things that you
purchase on a regular basis. And when
those are higher, there's sticker shock.
Um, what we've seen is a number of those
goods be more normalized. Now, um, we're
actually seeing deflation in categories
like apparel, which also are extremely
consumer-facing. And a lot of the
inflation numbers now are in uh,
utilities. They are in um, in shelter,
in home. Um, and it's it's in categories
that are um not necessarily that closely
tied to the consumer goods that we saw
being the biggest issues post pandemic.
>> So Judah, how long will it take to see
the entire impact on the supply chain of
the tariff rates?
Well, it's it's still early to it's it's
still very early to tell because there
have already been so many um preemptive
actions that a number of suppliers and
merchants and retailers have done. Um
they've done everything from drastic
moves like trying to reconfigure their
manufacturing bases to they've um
frontloaded a lot of inventory earlier
in the year. They may be housing some of
that in bonded warehouses or they're
managing um some of that merchandise in
in other ways. Um so they've offset some
of the potential impact in that way. I
expect um by Q4 or even in early 2026 if
these tariffs persist um though that's
when we'll see more of the impact. But
you also have to remember that a lot of
this the the tariffs were a threat to
try to get negotiating leverage with
these other trading partners of the
United States. if these other countries
come to the table, we may see um a lot
of these these tariff um rulings
actually being eliminated. So, there's
still very much um it's a work in
progress and TBD what ultimately happens
in 2026.
>> Fluid situation for sure on the trade
front. When it comes to frontloading,
how much is left in inventory for some
of those companies that went out and
decided to do this?
Well, from the conversations that I've
had with merchants, um there is enough
to take them through um through through
Q3 for for certain and even probably um
for some of their key goods into Q4. Um,
you have to remember that in a number of
categories, they're highly seasonal and
for some of their best sellers, they
have either negotiated deals that can
ensure that those prices are going to to
go uh that will hopefully they will
remain stable and they'll have enough
inventory um to not run out of stock
like we saw issues during during the
pandemic and following the pandemic. Um
so so I think that what we what we'll
ultimately see is hopefully um no
shortages of major demand goods in in
Q4. Um but you know kind of that's
that's certainly that's a blanket
statement and and there's no doubt that
there will be here and there um
retailers and likely certain product
categories that that we may see some
shortages. Um and that may also create
some panic buying for for some shoppers
in some categories um in November.
>> Suchita appreciate your time. Such
Katali there of Forester. Your question
I think is a really important one.
Tariff management has had a dampening
effect on pass through over the past few
months. That could change. This is a
process that's going to take time and
this is something that Andrew Honhorse
of city has pointed out who believes the
Federal Reserve is still going to cut
interest rates by the way but believes
the goods inflation will firm up through
fall. And if your inventory inventory is
run out, what does that mean later on in
the year, especially as we get closer to
the holidays and Christmas, that may
become politically challenging for this
administration?
>> Mike McKe is going to join us now with a
preview. Mike, welcome back to the
program, sir. The data 8 minutes away.
What are you looking for in just a
moment?
>> Well, we're looking for a couple of
things. Obviously, we are looking to see
what tariff influence price changes we
get. We'll look at apparel, electronics,
things that are imported that might
already have been tariffed, especially
uh things made with steel like washing
machines. But we're also going to be
looking and Torstston brought this up
with you guys at services prices.
There's a feeling that a decline we've
seen in airfares is going to reverse and
the same will be true with lodging away
from home and motor vehicle insurance.
that could push up the CPI faster than
it had been expected to uh rise. And uh
some people are saying even some
economists are saying in our survey even
a 4/10en rise in the core which would
put us at 3.1% year-over-year and that
would be something that would certainly
get the Fed's attention. And
>> Mike, in some ways is this data getting
harder to forecast?
>> It is because of the timing of the
tariffs. We know the president has uh
threatened tariffs for a long time. The
reciprocal tariffs have just gone on,
but we don't know what the
pharmaceutical tariffs, the
semiconductor tariffs, all the other
ones that are hanging out there. We
don't know they when they would be
imposed. And so, it's uh going to be a
continuing process. And that'll be part
of the debate at the Fed because of
course you have someone like Chris
Waller saying they're a oneoff. And yes,
in each category, they're a one-off, but
if the categories keep getting pushed
out, then we'll continuously see some
inflation effects as the months go by.
Mike, I'd love your thoughts on another
issue. You mentioned Torson Sloan also
talked about the BLS and the changes
that he's anticipated, pointed out that
ultimately they produce the data that
governs both sides of the dual mandate
at the Federal Reserve. What's your
reaction been to developments not just
in the last week, but particularly the
last 12 hours?
>> Well, I think that the new uh BLS
commissioner designate EJ Anton is going
to be a quite controversial pick. uh he
will probably get confirmed because
Republicans uh control the Senate, but
Democrats will ask some interesting
questions. He's tweeted a lot of his
criticisms of the BLS, calling them a
random number generator from the magical
world of Makebelie. Uh he's accused them
of having a negative bias towards the
administration. He's questioned all of
their methodology. Uh it would take a
lot to change that methodology, but
maybe uh they're just getting started on
that. Or maybe this is an effort to put
somebody in there who will challenge bad
numbers and try to get the public to
believe that the numbers are wrong
rather than the tariffs and other Trump
policies are having an effect.
>> Michael McKe, thank you, sir. Looking
forward to you breaking down the
inflation numbers in about 5 minutes
time. Just going to put my hands up and
concede that I have also on occasion
called it a random number generator and
I'm not alone.
>> On more than one occasion, you've called
it a random number generator. When I saw
that and some looking back at some of
his old tweets, I thought maybe he's
watching surveillance and taking that
cue from Jonathan. But that gets to the
crux of the issue the president has. Why
are these revisions not just this year
also what more than 800,000 revisions
last year? This is a concern for a lot
of people in the market. They want
better data. The issue with this
individual is that even in conservative
economic circles, he is a controversial
pick. As Mike was just saying,
>> I should say we often say that because
it's prone to large revisions and not
because we're accusing the BLS of any
particular political bias.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Got that out the way with. Up
next, the CPI report. We'll catch up
with Tiffany Wilding of Pimco, David
Kelly of JP Morgan Asset Management. The
data 5 minutes away.
[Music]
Inflation data 25 seconds away. Your
scores going into CPI shaping up as
follows. On the S&P 500 almost totally
unchanged on the NASDAQ 100, firmer by a
tenth of 1%. Some outperformance on the
Russell. The small caps are by 0.4. In
the bond market, 2year, 10year, 30-year
bond yields shaping up as follows.
Unchanged as well. This market has been
a snooze all morning anticipating this
number. The 10-year at 42849, the 2-year
at 377. With your economic data, here's
Mike McKe. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, let's see what
we've got here. A rise in the CPI on a
month-over-month basis, bang on with
consensus up 210 of a percent. The core
is up 3/10en of a percent. We'll check
that out. in terms of three digits on a
year-over-year basis. That takes us to
2.7% for headline and for to uh 3.1%
for the core on a year-over-year basis.
That's more than thought. So, this must
have been a very high uh 3/10en of a
percent. Trying to take a look at some
of what we're seeing in terms of the
actual changes in the categories. And
we'll look here to see some of the ones
that uh come up when we look at tariffs
and uh the uh tariffs for uh I'm looking
for apparel up just a tenth of a
percent. So not a big deal there. But
used cars up half a percent, new cars
were up just were flat basically on the
month. So apparently uh auto companies
absorbing some of the tariffs there. In
terms of services, uh, rent of primary
residents up 3/10en, owner's equivalent
rent up 3/10en for the third month in a
row. Medical care services up 8/10. Uh,
motor vehicle insurance only up a tenth.
There was a thought that might be
higher, but look at airline fairs after
being down for three months in a row.
They're up by 4% on the month. So,
that's one of the reasons that we are
seeing uh that core rate go up. I'll
look at more numbers. Let me just note
that food prices were flat on the month.
Uh and you guys can check the markets
and uh come back and I'll give you some
more of these uh tariff numbers.
>> Hey Mike, thank you. Give me some time
to break down the details. Just the
early reaction, the first move, not
always the right move, but this is what
it looks like. Equity futures positive
now by 0.4% trading on the fact that we
don't have an upside surprise. That's
the good news this morning on the NASDAQ
high by 0.5. Then our performance on a
Russell continues in the bond market
unlocking some lower yields at the front
end of the curve down five basis points
at 371.84.
Not the kind of number at least for the
first look that derails the Federal
Reserve's efforts to cut interest rates
maybe as soon as September with those
moves at the front end of the curve. You
look at the FX market euro dollar euro
stronger dollar weaker euro dollar back
to about 11636.
>> Bang in line. So there's no real drama
Jonathan as you would say when it comes
to this number. But we should note that
for the first time in 6 months, the
monthly core CPI reading failed to
undersshoot the median forecast. So you
do have this question and whether or not
does this mean this is an inflection
point going forward that potentially we
could see a little bit more of hotter
prints.
>> Mike McKe still with us. That number in
line for month overmonth CPI headline
stripping out food and energy month over
month inline as well as 0.3 versus a
0.3% estimate. Mike, you've had a second
look at the numbers. What do you see
now? Well, gasoline played a big role in
holding down the overall number because
it was down by 2.2%. It is uh been up a
little bit, but the seasonal adjustment
for this time of year takes some of that
away. Uh as I mentioned, food prices
were flat on the month and used vehicles
up half a percent. So, you get a little
bit of uh the tariff impact a little bit
left out of it and apparel prices up
just a tenth of a percent on the month.
uh still looking to uh get to uh the
electronics portion of this which we
should see uh some uh increases as
people uh buy more stuff from uh Asia
but I'll get back to you on that one in
a second.
>> Mike, thank you sir. Tiffany Wilder
Pimpose is going to join us in the
meantime. Tiffany, welcome to the
program. Is the door still open for a
rate cut in September?
Yeah, I mean I think the CPI was
completely in line with expectations.
How we've characterized the the sort of
tariff related pass through. The
evidence is that it's happening but it's
happening slower than I think many
people expected going back to uh April
when when the more dramatic tariff
announcements were were were first
implemented or announced. Um it's
happening more slowly and and across uh
across industries, you know, it's it's
more uneven, you know. So I think the
broader story here that we're still
seeing is that it's very concentrated
within goods. It's happening slowly and
outside of that, you know, inflationary
pressures look very manageable. So I
think for a Federal Reserve that is a
very good sign. You know, in addition to
that, there's I would argue better news
in terms of the so-called second round
effects uh with higher prices leading to
higher wages and and getting more into
the inflationary process. We've actually
seen inflation expectations from various
surveys start to moderate. the
University of Michigan survey, which
we'll get later this week, the
longerterm inflation expectation index
for that one, had um accelerated more,
but it's moderated more recently. So, I
think all of this points to um you know,
a central bank that can get on with
normalizing policy rates back to
neutral. Stephanie, something we've been
exploring throughout the whole of this
morning and to be fair over the last
several months is whether tariff delayed
the tariff story is delayed by the fact
that we've seen fantastic inventory
management from some of the retailers at
the moment and that maybe we haven't
seen the full extent of this. When would
you get comfortable that we've seen the
limits of it all?
Yeah, I mean I I think like you know we
expect a good portion of the pass
through over the next several months,
but I but I think the bottom line is is
is that companies have room it appears
that companies have room um as a result
of still high uh margins coming out of
the pandemic. companies have room to
sort of more slowly pass this on to
consumers and um and so what that means
is that you know goods inflation could
be a little bit more persistent over
time but you're not necessarily going to
have that uh that that bigger surge that
many people expected as you get that
faster price level adjustment this year
so I think for the Fed I think that's
all good news you know the other thing
that that we see when we look at you
know a range of data you know is that
companies so far are absorbing we think
the lion share of the additional cost of
tariffs and as I mentioned they can do
it their margins were elevated uh post
pandemic that has remained the case um
and so they do have room here you know
at least the largest companies have room
uh to to sort of manage this process and
we think that's what they're doing you
know the other thing is is the tax
legislation that was recently passed the
one big beautiful bill that is uh you
know reducing the effective tax rates
for a lot of companies especially those
companies that are capital intensive.
They invest a lot. They're getting um
you know upfront expensing tax credits
and and that will help offset the uh the
impact of the tariffs as well. A lot of
those tax credits were retroactive for
2025. So all of that just means that
companies do have a little bit of
flexibility here uh and can manage the
pass through rate.
>> So Tiffany, are you basically saying
that because of the one big beautiful
bill, companies are able to eat more of
the higher tariffs from this
administration?
Yeah, I mean I I certainly think that
that's the case. Um, you know, now the
uh, you know, what what we estimate in
terms of the tax savings in aggregate
for 2025 is is around um, you know, uh,
150 billion. The tariff uh, tax
collections that are happening, we
annualize at about 350 billion. So the
tax legislation is not completely
offsetting the additional taxes paid by
tariffs, but it certainly is. um in
mitigating some of it and and so that's
why you know we've argued you'll still
see we think some um pass through of
higher tariffs onto prices. You'll get
some price adjustment um but we think
the risk here is is just that it takes
longer than many people are expecting.
you know, the inflationary effects of
this in the back half of this year are
somewhat less, you know, and again, that
just sets the Federal Reserve up to um
you know, to uh continue to restart its
uh cutting cycle uh to get back
ultimately to to neutral policy rates.
>> Tiffany Wild, of PIMCO, Tiffany, thank
you. It's got to catch up and get your
reaction to the inflation report. The
numbers just dropping about 8 minutes
ago in line with expectations. Headline
month over month CPI coming in at 0.2%.
The core number stripping out food and
energy coming in at 0.3 leaving the door
open for a rate reduction at the Federal
Reserve. Weighing on yields at the front
end of the curve, yields down, unlocking
higher equity markets this morning as
well, up by 0.5% on the S&P 500. That
follows the first look at this data.
Let's get a second and third look at
this data with Michael McKe. Mike, I
know you've got more.
>> Yeah, John, we're looking to see what
the impact of tariffs is, and it's very
mixed. We are seeing tariff impacts in
certain areas, but in some of the areas
you'd think would be showing some more
movement, they are not. Uh, one thing
that stands out is tomatoes up 3.3%.
Remember, uh, the president put a tariff
on Mexican imported tomatoes. Coffee
prices, and we've got a tariff on Brazil
up 2.3%.
Uh, from Asia, household furnishings are
up 7/10en of a percent, but uh,
appliances down 2.2% 2% including
washing machines down 1.8%. They had
moved up a lot in the last couple of uh
things uh reports. Video and audio
equipment up 8/10en of a percent however
while toys are only up 2/10en of a
percent. So you get some that are up,
some that are not. There are obviously
some uh passroughs from overall uh
tariffs, but we're not seeing a major
increase in uh every category, at least
not yet. Mike, do you think the head of
the BLS can get a job back now? I'm
joking. Don't answer that. Michael,
thank you. Michael McKe, thank you very
much. David Kelly of JP Morgan Asset
Management with us around the table.
David, good morning.
>> Not going to ask you that question. Just
want to ask you the following. When will
you be comfortable that we've seen the
limits of this? How many more months of
data do you need?
>> Oh, we're just getting started. I mean,
what we saw today was plenty of
inflation without tariff effects. We
didn't have a big increase in new car
prices. We didn't have a big increase in
apparel prices. But let's look at what
where we did see an increase. airline
fairs have come down a lot because the
the airline industry was very weak. But
if you look at the recent data on people
going through TSA checkpoints, it's
firmed up and so domestic airline travel
is now back on a positive year-over-year
basis. Uh we've got a lot of fiscal
stimulus going to kick kick into the
economy early next year. But also in the
tariffs, even in July, we saw a lot of
money collected, but it still equates to
about a tariff rate of about 8%. We
think this whole tariff tariff rate is
going to go up to about 14 a.5% measured
by that later. So we've got most of this
tariff increase still ahead of us in
terms of just affecting the data. And
then you know people say oh the the
retailers going to eat it. No they're
not. They just wrote the check. So so of
course of course it looks like they're
eating it. Walmart writes a check but
eventually they're going to pass it on.
And yes they've got good margins but how
do they manage to sustain these margins?
Because they're great at figuring it out
and figuring out how to stiff consumers.
And that's what they'll do. And so this
thing will feed through. It's just a
matter of a number of number of months.
And you know, inflation's going up, but
it's going up very steadily and it will
be above, we think, you know, about
three and a half% in CPI by the end of
the year.
>> You've made two important points here.
One is that you believe that goods
prices will continue to firm through the
year ahead and that you're not going to
see an offset from services. Is that
right?
>> That's correct. Because the the what's
going to happen is the economy is going
to be slower uh in the second half of
this year as these this goods inflation
feeds through. But the big kicker here
that people are not talking about is the
huge rush of income tax refunds that's
going to kick in at the start of next
year. It's going to be like an extra
stimulus check. And and that, you know,
we've seen what happens. You give you
give him a cookie, you get he's going to
want a glass of milk. You give an
American consumer a stimulus check, they
will spend it. And you're going to have
a surge of spending in the first half of
next year with limited supply because of
all these tariff and supply chain
disruptions, you are going to get a
second round of inflation, which is
going to sustain inflation well above
3%. Which begs the question of why again
is the Fed cutting?
>> Well, if if inflation's heading the
wrong way slowly,
>> that was my next question to you. What
does the Fed do with with this kind of
data?
>> They they should stay on hold. There is
there I think there's very little
argument that the in favor of the Fed
cutting rates. Rates are not abnormally
high. I don't know why they think 3% is
a neutral rate in the long run. It
doesn't equate to history before the
pandemic. I I think something four or
four and a half% is more of a neutral
rate anyway. But there is no urgency
about cutting rates. Now, I think they
will cut rates for political reasons,
which is very unfortunate. But I don't
think they should based on these data.
>> As you're talking, traders are actually
adding to bets of September Fed rate cut
because this basically came in in line
when it comes to inflation. But why for
political reasons when actually we saw a
trend three months of not so great
unemployment numbers?
>> Well, yeah, but if you look at the
overall mosaic of of employment, it's
it's still growing. And remember, we've
got a labor supply problem, too. And one
of the things that Jay Pal pointed out
is he's not looking at payroll growth.
He's looking at the unemployment rate.
If you've got fewer jobs being created,
but we got fewer workers, then you've
still got a certain amount of
inflationary pressure. You've just said
that the the growth potential of the
economy has gone down. Well, they can't
do anything about that. So, if you're
not, you know, this economy is not going
to spark a huge surge in unemployment.
And I think the basic point is by the
end of the year, we think maybe four and
a half% unemployment. We think over 3%
in inflation. They're missing their
inflation target by more than
unemployment. Therefore, they shouldn't
be shouldn't be cutting.
>> You're just telling this up, though. But
you believe they will be cutting. So,
you've got the Federal Reserve cutting
interest rates at a time when inflation
is picking up. And the key phrase you
used was second round effects. You don't
believe this is a one-off. You're
actually going to see second round
effects in the first half of 26. What's
your market view on top of that?
>> Well, so I think it's the market view is
not too bad because I think for again
for political reasons, I think
unfortunately the Fed will cut twice
this year, maybe three times next year.
They'll get going and cutting. it's not
going to really change the economy that
much, but if you bring long-term bring
short rates down enough, it does push
extra liquidity into the equity market
and so you could just maintain these
bubbly asset markets. I what we've got
is a tortoise of an economy and a hair
of a market and and we're we're just
giving more sugar to the hair. That's
the stock story. What about the fixed
income story for bonds? Because we've
had guest after guest come on this
program and say, "Get ready for a CP
yield curve." They go aggressive. At the
front end, you're going to see yields
lower. at the long end you're going to
see a questionable development.
>> Well, you know, it's it's again, it's
hard for a tortoiseike economy to
generate a really steep uh yield curve.
So, I I but I think you could see rates
move up a bit. I would I wouldn't be um
I wouldn't be long duration here because
I I I don't think this economy is going
to go into recession. I think by the
time the the tariffs really hit, we're
be going to be on the verge of fiscal
stimulus because of this income tax
refund thing and that will keep this
keep this economy moving forward. And if
the economy is moving forward, you got
inflation printing at three, you
shouldn't really have a long bond lower
than 42.
>> What do you think inflation's going to
peak at in the next 12 months?
>> I think CPI is going to peak at about 3
and a half% and then hang there between
3 three and a half% through about June
of next year and then finally it's going
to come down again because this is
sugar. You know, these income tax
refunds, it's a sugar rush. It's not
protein. It will wear off and then by
the end of next year, then I think the
economy is finally coming unless of
course you get some more stimulus. And
that's really the problem because if the
Fed keeps on cutting rates whenever
whenever you know the the other side of
Washington asks them to then then it
enables more and more rounds of fiscal
stimulus to always keep this economy a
little bit too hot. So it's not it's not
you know it's called inflammation.
Doctors don't like it. David it's good
to hear from you. I'm not sure if
markets will like we've got to say this
morning either. David Kelly there JP
Morgan asset management. Equities are
firmer by 0.5 call it 0.6% on the S&P
and bond yields at the front end of the
curve initially reacting to this data
lower. They stay lower. were down by
five basis points on a 2-year at 372.
The view in this market is that it's not
an upside surprise and we can carry on
as normal because the Fed's going to
come come September
>> and they're adding to more bets that
September is not just on the table.
September almost feels like for some a
done deal. But when David talks, I'm
reminded of what Muhammad Alan has said
as well, that this market inflation
picture is likely going to stay around
3% and maybe the Fed actually Muhammad's
argument was needs to start targeting a
3% inflation rate, not 2%.
>> Our performance on a small caps this
morning, the Russell up by 1.25%. With
an update on stories elsewhere with your
Bloomberg brief, here's Yahihara. Hey
yhara.
>> Hi John. We start by recapping the
latest economic data. Underlying US
inflation accelerated in July to the
fastest pace since January amid a pickup
in services prices. Core CPI rose 3/10en
of 1% from June which came in line with
expectations and rose 3.1% compared to a
year ago above the 3% that economists
expected. Meanwhile, President Trump has
named EJ Anthony to lead the Bureau of
Labor Statistics after firing the
previous chief following weak July
payrolls data. Anthony is chief
economist of the Conservative Heritage
Foundation and has been vocal about his
concerns with BLS jobs data and
revisions. The position is subject to
Senate confirmation.
And Elon Musk accused Apple of favoring
Open AI, saying the company makes it
impossible for anyone else to reach the
top of the App Store charts. Musk said
Apple's behavior is an antirust
violation and stated that XAI will take
immediate legal action. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next, we'll set you up for the day
ahead. Plus, Ira Jersey of Bloomberg
Intelligence as traders add to bed for a
September rate cut following this
morning's CPI data from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
This CPI was completely in line with
expectations. How we've characterized
the the sort of tariff related pass
through the evidence is that it's
happening but it's happening slower than
I think many people expected. The
broader story here that we're still
seeing is that it's very concentrated
within goods. It's happening slowly and
outside of that, you know, inflationary
pressures look very manageable. So I
think for a Federal Reserve that is a
very good sign. That was Tiffany Welding
of PIMCO. Inflation data out just 21
minutes ago. And equities like what they
don't see. They like what they don't
see. And what we didn't see was an
upside surprise. Equity futures positive
by 0.6%. That data unlocking this move
in the bond market. At the front end of
the curve, yields lower on a 2-year bond
yield in America right now. The two-year
Treasury yield at the moment down about
four or five basis points to 372 with
less than 1 hour to go into the oven and
bow. Let's get you some morning movers.
Here's Yahara. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. The bar was high for one of the
year's hottest IPOs, Circle Internet,
and it appears it has cleared it with
shares up 11 12% in the pre-market.
That's because investors are are are
focusing on its stronger than expected
revenue and shrugging off a bigger than
expected loss in the second quarter.
We'll see if these gains hold given that
weak spot and given as I said that
expect expectations are skyhigh with
this stock up 400% from its $31 IPO
price. What a jump. Next up we moved on
to another stock also rising soaring 16%
on holdings after delivering a
surprisingly strong second quarter and
lifting its outlook at a time when these
footwear makers are under pressure due
to tariffs. Because like many others on
produces most of its shoes overseas in
places like Vietnam but it is undeterred
with the CEO saying that consumer energy
remains high for its shoes. And we end
on tapestry shares are up 1.8%. This is
a stock this is a company that reports
on Thursday and ahead of that Dana
Telsey is raising her price target to
$125.
What Dana is saying that results will be
powered by its Coach handbag unit, which
she says is resonating well with younger
shoppers, which makes sense because a
Coach bag will run you about $300 to
$500, not thousands of dollars the way
those luxury handbags are. John
>> Yara, appreciate it. Thank you very
much. I wouldn't know. You might know.
>> Coach is actually cool again.
>> That's accessible on trend.
>> Entry- level luxury.
>> Yes, definitely.
>> When did it stop being cool?
>> It was definitely cool when I was in
high school. like you know in the mid
2000s but then it became kind of uncool
and now it's you know what's old is new
again.
>> There you go. Helpful stuff. Okay, let's
get back to the market and the inflation
data. Joining us now is Ira Jersey of
Bloomberg Intelligence. Ira, welcome to
the program. Sir, your reaction to that
data from 23 minutes ago.
>> Yeah. So, more or less as expected, but
there was certainly a lot of investors
that we had spoken to that were worried
that we were going to get a slightly hot
inflation print, particularly on the
core side of things. So more like a 0.4
instead of a rounded down 0.3 as we
received. So I think that's one of the
reasons why you have this little bit of
a relief rally in the front end of the
yield curve.
>> We've had two different reactions so far
this morning. Guyra, one reaction is
this is good news. Leaves the door open.
The Fed's going to come in September.
Another reaction, David Kelly of JP
Morgan said, "Get ready for firmer goods
inflation in the months ahead. This
ain't over. This process will continue."
What's your reaction and what would you
put more weight on this morning?
Well, I think that the goods inflation
story is one that will probably linger
for the at least the rest of the year.
Um, because we don't know exactly who's
going to pass through the inflation
pressures to the consumer um or will
that wind up being more of a uh of a
margins and producer price uh story and
and I think that that's something that
we're going to find out tomorrow, right?
Will we see higher goods input prices
and intermediate goods in in the PPI
tomorrow? Um, so, so again that like
this is not something that's going to go
away in terms of core goods, but in
terms of the Fed, I think that there is
going to be a little relief and the
Federal Reserve could certainly shift
toward thinking about cutting because of
the softer jobs uh data that we got uh a
week and a half ago. So, um, so I do
think that this leaves the door open.
Keep in mind though, we do get another
set of inflation data prior to the next
meeting. So, we have another another
CPI, another PPI, plus the uh plus the
July uh PC deflator. Um, so we still
have a lot of data to get through before
we are certain what the Fed's going to
do in September.
>> Ira, thanks for the reaction. I know
you've got a busy morning ahead of you.
Ira Jersey there of Bloomberg
Intelligence. Busy morning ahead of us
tomorrow. Here's the lineup. Oxana
Aranov of JP Morgan Asset Management,
Libby Canel of Pimco, Sebatra Japra of
Sockgen, and then the Treasury Secretary
Scott Besson. What's so exciting about
the Treasury Secretary coming on is he
is leading the search, Jonathan, for who
could be the next vent chair.
>> Looking forward to that conversation
tomorrow morning from New York City.
This was Bloomberg Surveillance
[Music]
Day five at the Cincinnati Open. World
number one Arena Sabalena had to battle
the Heat and Emma Radakanu on her way to
the fourth round. The defending champion
closing it out in the deciding set
breaker after over three hours on court.
Seven aces and 51 winners for Sabalanka
in the victory. And don't forget you can
watch all the action live daily on
Tennis Channel.